The Gauteng Department of Education has expelled the pupil who was caught on camera attacking a teacher, hurling a brick at him and kicking him at the Albertina Sisulu Special School. The department expelled the learner on Friday, saying his behaviour could not be tolerated and that it was important that the teacher does his work freely, without being under threat. "The teacher's safety cannot be compromised because of one learner," the department said. In the video, the visibly scared teacher can be seen running from the enraged pupil. The pupil grabs a brick and hurls it at the teacher. The teacher falls and while he is on the ground, the pupil kicks him. The teacher manages to get up again and starts running. One of the female teachers asks the pupil: "What is your problem?". He responds with "I have been patient with him for a long time, today he will s**t himself." When she tries to stop him from going after the teacher, he says to her: "Ma'am, leave me alone". Another female teacher grabs him but he wriggles out of her grip and starts running. The three female teachers, including the one recording, can be heard saying that police must be called. With the pupil hot on his heels, the teacher tries to flee but falls again. Finally, three men grab the pupil and lead him away from the teacher.     Gauteng Department of Education MEC, Panyaza Lesufi, said despite the fact that the perpetrator is a special needs learner, he will never be allowed back into the school. “There is no room for violence in our schools. We condemn in the strongest possible terms any violent behaviour by both educators and learners. The department takes issues of learner discipline in a very serious light and does not hesitate to take appropriate steps to correct the behaviour of learners, including those in Learners with Special Education Needs (LSEN) schools." "There is no justification for violence and ill-discipline,” Lesufi said. The 18-year-old learner is now attending a diversion programme, anger management and behavioural modification sessions. "The safety of educators, learners and everyone in our schools must always be guaranteed. The learner will never return to the school; however, an alternative school will be sourced for him after completion of his programme." The Star