Bantu education architect Hendrik Verwoerd must be turning in his grave over “groundbreaking” moves to de-racialise the school feeder zone policies in Gauteng,. This is what MEC for Gauteng Education Panyaza Lesufi said on Thursday morning while announcing a gazette that he said would do away with apartheid feeder policies. Addressing journalists at the department’s offices in Johannesburg, Lesufi said the new feeder policies will kick in by 2020. The public has 30 days to comment on the gazette. Gauteng has over the years seen a number of standoffs involving Afrikaans-medium refusing to admit black learners. This year also kicked off with protests by parents and political parties outside Overvaal Hoerskool in the Vaal over the same complaints. African parents accused the Afrikaans-medium school of blocking their children because they had never been taught solely in Afrikaans throughout their schooling career. Lesufi said the new policies will avert such issues, as language policies of all the schools would have to accommodate learners from the communities. The new policies are also aimed at opening the schools for learners from surrounding communities. “We really believe this is a groundbreaking way of opening our schools to all our children. All our schools now can belong to all communities,” said Lesufi. “Whatever Hendrik Verwoed introduced, I've changed,” Lesufi said. “I'm quite convinced he's not happy in that grave.Gone are the days when parents would have to fake addresses to secure their children space in schools located in affluent communities, said Lesufi. “All our schools now belong to all South Africans.” Schools in the province will have to redraft their policies and submit them to the department for approval. “It means every school policy must now be re-admitted to the department,” said Lesufi. “All those school policies must be submitted to the head of department. I don't want to be conflicted, you know my views. I'm removing the politician." Lesufi said all the schools across Gauteng were consulted. Also, organisations involved in education played a major role in the content of the gazette. These included Equal Education, the National Association of School Governing Bodies and the Federation of Governing Bodies of South Africa. “I'm grateful to them. They really persuaded us where they felt the department was not fair,” said Lesufi. 