The Joburg Carnival has been cancelled over lack of funds. This City of Joburg said in a statement on Monday that despite fundraising efforts and the interest expressed by some corporates, they were unable to raise sufficient funds on time to finance the carnival. "It is thus with great regret that I inform the residents of Johannesburg, the arts community and our patrons that the 2018 version of the Joburg Carnival has been cancelled. "The cancellation of the Carnival for 2018 does not take away from the City’s commitment to social cohesion and unity, but will give the City leeway to deliver a bigger Carnival in 2019," the statement said. The carnival is always held at the end of December to usher in the new year. MMC for Community Development in the City, Nonhlanhla Sifumba, said the carnival had over the years, contributed "immensely" to the creative industries as a vehicle of employment - thus contributing to the City’s Economic Development Plan. She said the 2017 rendition of the Joburg Carnival recorded growth in all facets, which included the number of participants, number of jobs created and number of SMMEs supported through the carnival. There was also an increase in the number of creative practitioners employed, Sifumba said. "The Carnival is not only a celebration of our collective identity and a platform for residents to showcase their unique cultures, and thus contribute to social cohesion in the City. It is also an opportunity for corporates to showcase their business offerings to the residents of the City. “I am aware that the most adversely affected by this cancellation are the creative practitioners who look forward to the employment opportunities the City provides them. I would like to apologise to them - especially - for the inconvenience this cancellation causes. I would also like to appeal to the private sector to partner with us as sponsors – to not only give back to the people of the City, but to also use the Carnival as a showcase of their products and services." Sifumba said the City was committed to the development and advancement of Arts, Culture and Heritage. "Despite all the resource challenges that come with staging a project of the carnival’s magnitude, the City has committed to avail resources and continue fundraising for the 2019 version of the Joburg Carnival and the years following. "The Joburg Carnival is one of the flagship programmes in the City and we will over the next three years invest in its growth and development," she said. 