A further seven primary schools in the township north of Joburg are to benefit from the contributions this week. The Star teamed up with Steyn City, Gift of the Givers and Stuttaford Van Lines, among others, in an R8million project which will see the upliftment of schools in Diepsloot. The children from Grade R upwards were fitted with new socks and school shoes. Many had never worn shoes before and were bewildered as they fitted them. The Star editor Japhet Ncube said he was pleased to be part of the handing over of the goodies. “Mostly people donate money, not knowing where it is going to. It is a great pleasure to actually see the children receive these donations personally and to see the smiles on their faces, trying on their new shoes and peering into their gift packs. “I saw the happiness in some of the pupils who had never had a new pair of shoes,” he said. The Steyn City community - including staff, residents and Steyn City Properties' contractors and suppliers - organised the occasion, which celebrated its seventh year. “Although we have undertaken several initiatives at Steyn City to assist our neighbours, this is by far our favourite. It's our way of giving back to the children of Diepsloot, many of whose parents and caregivers work at our Parkland homes,” Steyn City Properties chief executive Giuseppe Plumari said. "This year's Delivering Happiness to Diepsloot campaign had an extra special component, in an effort to ensure that Diepsloot primary school children don't have to walk to school barefoot any more." Steyn City, he said, had promised to deliver 13000 pairs of school shoes in its #PledgeAPair project. With this in mind, the resort invited community members to become a #SoleMate by donating shoes through its website. “It is alarming to see how the simple lack of school shoes can affect a learner. Every year, many children are forced to walk distances, come rain or sunshine, negatively impacting on their education,” Plumari said. Steyn City’s logistic partners, Gift of the Givers, were accompanied by celebrities such as Thabo "Tbo Touch" Molefe and Marks Maponyane. The project has received outstanding support from many corporates, with Auto & General, like Steyn City, making a sizeable contribution towards the cost of the Bata Toughees and bags containing food parcels and sweets. These were made by a women's upliftment group, Uzwelo from KwaZulu-Natal. Tbo Touch had also secured sponsorship from The Foschini Group (TFG), which donated 10000 blankets. Mymoena Mooradd, a manager at TFG, said: “This is a great example of how the right partnerships can work together to bring joy to communities. TFG's Educate2Empower is about more than just access to quality education, but also about ensuring that basic needs are met. "So many have played a role in making this possible, I’d especially like to thank the TFG employees who have made the blankets.” Another noteworthy donation came from the Gift of the Givers. “It is an enormous privilege to partner with this organisation, which is so well known for its giant scope and capabilities, and which has exceptional skill and experience in logistics of this scale,” Plumari said. In turn, Gift of the Givers' Roslyn Toontas said the organisation was very pleased to participate. Their donation included 11000 pairs of socks, 11000 packages of Red Lion instant noodles, 11000 packages of Genesis high nutrition cereal and 3000 sweet packs, including a toy, for younger schoolchildren. Other sponsors included Kelloggs while The Star came on board as media partners. For further information, visit www.steyncity.co.za