The festival features a variety of shows over a four-day period, including gospel, comedy, hip hop and jazz. Event organiser Molefi Setlaleleng from Showtime Entertainment said this year’s event would pay tribute to “the king of Motswako”, HHP, who died last month and was buried in his hometown of Mahikeng. “We are excited about a special tribute to HHP. This tribute will see motswako hip hop all-stars collaborate on what we believe is going to be a moving and entertaining musical tribute to HHP,” Setlaleleng said. North West MEC for Culture, Arts and Traditional Affairs Ontlametse Mochware said: “Mahika Mahikeng this year would not be complete without a tribute to our own home-grown legend, who we buried only last month. “Our beloved HHP was the heart of music in North West. His influence reverberated not only in the capital and other parts of the province, but in every corner of the country. "Not only did he show his calibre to the people of South Africa, he also earned respect and admiration in Botswana, the US and many other parts of the world,” she said. Setlaleleng said they were “excited to have an array of national and local artists”. Lebo Sekgobela, Benjamin Dube, Omega, Mahikeng YMG, Sipho Ngwenya, Ntokozo Mbambo and many others will usher in the festival on December 6 at the Mmabatho Convention Centre. On December 7, Maftown Heights returns to the Mmabatho Stadium parking lot with performances from Riky Rick, Nadia Nakai, Tuks, Khuli Chana, Blahk, Dhlags and other hip-hop giants. On the second day there will be a comedy show at the Mmabatho Convention Centre hosted by Skhumba. Some of the comedians are King Flat, Tshekedi Monyemore, Mashabela, Salesman, Tumi Stopnonsons and others who are sure to make the audience laugh nonstop. The festival will see American singer, songwriter and record producer Anthony Hamilton making an appearance on stage. In August, the R&B singer surprised the crowds at his concert at the Sun Arena in Pretoria when he sang in isiZulu. On December 9 at Mmabatho Stadium there will be performances from Hamilton, Brenda Mtambo, Shekhinah, Tshepo Tshola, Queen B, Zahara, Lady Zamar and others. Tickets available at Computicket. @SthembisoMedia