The initiative forms part of this year's Delivering Happiness to Diepsloot festivities. Now in its seventh year, Delivering Happiness to Diepsloot is Steyn City’s flagship charity drive. Every year, staff and contractors accompanied by celebrities and the media pack a convoy of trucks full of schoolbags containing toys, stationery and snacks to be distributed among the children of neighbouring Diepsloot. One of these people is Nomfundo Yokwana. As a Diepsloot resident herself, Yokwana knows the challenges faced not only by adults in the community but children as well. “We grew up poor. We used to carry books in plastic bags and now I see the difference. All the children have bags now because of Steyn City and no one is classed as poor or rich because they are all the same. So they are better off,” she said. Yokwana has lived in Extension 4 since 2008 and finds the area to be full of crime and corruption, which leads to services sometimes not being delivered. “I do hope that the crime in the community can stop because our children are not safe. I want the government to make sure we are living in a safe space. People need jobs and many do crime because they have no money or work.” Yokwana works at Steyn City and the income she gets helps her provide for her four children. She is part of the group of staff members who take on the challenge of packing Christmas goodies for the children of Diepsloot. All the seven primary schools in the area will receive school bags and shoes in this year's campaign. “I am happy knowing that the young ones won't have to suffer. You see some children walking to school in torn shoes and it just isn't okay. I wish I could help them all but I don't have the money to do that so being part of this campaign is my positive impact,” Yokwana said. The 36-year-old says she has become popular with the children in the area because of the work she does with Steyn City. “My sister's children, the neighbours, the community, they all know me very well, and often give me advice on which school to visit next. This year I will be part of the drop offs at two schools. This brings a lot of happiness.” Steyn City is aiming to donate 13000 pairs of shoes to Diepsloot's primary school learners. As an added bonus, each pair of these shoes is manufactured locally and packaged in a bag made by a Durban-based women's empowerment group, Uzwelo. The campaign handover takes place on November 14.