There’s something enticing about chilling and turning up the volume as loud as possible to feel in the moment. If you are looking for that feeling then the Sony Wireless Speaker (SRS-XB21) is just what you’ve been missing to fill the void. This speaker is amazing and will transform your listening experience to levels unknown. When it was handed to me I gushed over its smooth cover and bright red colour. The speaker offers plenty of options to be pleased about. First, let’s start with its portable light weight which makes it great for carrying around when you are moving around the house or just grabbing it to take to a party. It also has an impressive battery life with a full charge lasting up to 12 hours. You can charge it overnight and its charging port is compatible with most USB power sources. The live sound mode is great and provides the same intensity as a surround sound system whether you are listening to music, a podcast or watching a movie. With its Bluetooth compatibility, which takes just a few seconds to pair, you can connect any device to the Wireless Speaker and instantly transform your listening experience. I tested it while listening to podcasts on my iPhone and while watching a series and movies on my laptop. Another win was the lighting which can be adjusted to any preferred level. This is great for parties or when you are just looking for a fun mood for whatever you might be interested in listening to. My little niece loved the flashing lights and the changing colour co-ordination. The speakers are dust and waterproof. So, you can be assured that wherever you decide to take it, it will be protected. You will also be pleased with the wireless party chain feature, speaker add function and the speakerphone voice assist function - which guides you on which function to use. So, whether you love a party with good music or just a relaxed listening experience, your Christmas wish list has to include the Sony Wireless Speaker SRS-XB21. You will not regret it. Get it for your friend, family or yourself.