The festive season doesn’t always start as a happy space for many people. Work fatigue, monetary pressure and the weight of the year that has gone by often sit at the top of one’s mind. The Sunlight brand, recently held an event at the luscious greens venue Shepstone Gardens, to launch their new natural liquid dishwashing products through a sensory journey inspired by nature. Statistics show that South Africans are enduring increasing levels of stress. Professionals surveyed last year in Prof med's Stress Index claimed that stress had both an emotional and physical impact on them, with 10.9 percent of the respondents taking time off due to stress-related illness. Dr Ela Manga took guests on a journey of the senses while highlighting the importance of understanding energy forces. “Living in urban environments has resulted in people becoming used to high energy stress responses and those hormones are pumped into our systems constantly. Everything is high demand and the body kicks into survival mode, and as a result our entire beings are in adrenalized energy. We have become addicts of our own stress hormones.” Manga said in order for humans to optimise physiology and perfect human design, the challenge was to integrate recovery loops into everyday lives “This will help us to align back to our natural rhythm. Relaxation doesn’t come naturally anymore; we have to make a conscious effort to connect with ourselves because the epidemic of stress, burnout and depression that we see at the moment is as a result of disconnection.” Manga added that giving the body an opportunity to replenish would release people from always being in survival mode. “We have to be practical about how we integrate these recovery loops into our lives. By creating ‘book ends’ by starting the day connected and ending it connected whether that is through yoga or meditation or sitting in your garden. Throughout the day the body needs recovery loops and we have to insert them consciously. Even a sigh of relief or a yawn can activate a mode of rest. It doesn’t have to be complicated. On a weekly basis it is important to disconnect from your daily activities.” Interior designer Nthabi Taukobong gave tips on how to ensure a home is a place where reconnecting can take place and an environment of healing can be perpetuated through the use of natural elements in the home. Dietician Mpho Tshukudu explained the importance of functional nutrition and how people should start to train their minds to think about food for its benefits and realise how stress does not allow for proper digestion to take place. “No matter how healthy you salmon, olive oil and feta is; if you are stressed, you are not going to assimilate or digest any of the nutrients. A lot of us are eating healthy but what goes on internally is disrupting the body from benefiting from the foods.”  After a day of yoga, a walk through the Shepstone Gardens, collecting natural ingredients for a hand scrub and enjoying a scrumptious meal, Sunlight dishwashing liquid marketing manager Nobuhle Ngubane, said it was time Sunlight strengthened its brand with the use of more natural ingredients. “It was hard to think about what we could do to improve the brand. We understand how trends are progressing, how consciousness around nature is growing and how the busier we get, the more stressed we are getting as society. We are thinking more on how to better ourselves in terms of our health and our lifestyles. In other parts of the world consumers are really demanding that brands stand for something that can be associated with nature. Nature is inspirational; there is so much we can do by improving our products and making them more natural,” she said. * Sunlight Extra Nature contains added aloe and mineral salts, both of which have been used for generations for their healing and soothing properties. This means that Sunlight Extra Nature is gentle on your hands while being safe for the whole family. 