During this year's 16 Days of Activism to End Violence against Women and Children, Independent Media continues our #DontLookAway campaign by shining a spotlight on sexual harassment. We asked three prominent spoken word artists to compose poems for this campaign. Here is Bulelwa Basse's poem. DON’T look away, when you see that “entitled” hand up her polka dotted skirt. Don’t look away, especially when her eyes begin to well up with shame.  Her body is not a battlefield for any ego to flex its vile victory! Don’t look away, when the amount reflected on her payslip is determined by how many times her undergarments have scattered about the “boss’” office. Don’t dare turn that blind eye, when her pain is displayed on corporate vision boards, advertising how her sex will sell the ultimate fortune, because in her fragile world, seeing and hearing no evil is not an option.  Don’t look away, when her husband’s only love-language is to fancy her pretty face as a punching-bag. Hear her when she screams: “Love don’t live here no more!”  Don’t look away, when flowers and chocolate become her remuneration for escorting men in expensive suits, guised as “investors” of our beloved country. Yes: I’m talking to you, fellow South African, quick to sell your sister’s soul for 15 seconds of fame and fortune with a hole in it: Tell the school caretaker he will be “taken care of” when justice pays him an unexpected visit. Remind that conflicted teacher, the principal’s office is not where he will have to answer for all his transgressions, but the concrete jungle of dungeons, designed to remind him never to help himself to the innocence of a child again.  Please, don’t look away ... As we can no longer endure the haunting silence that comes like a thief in the night, devours the preciousness of our mothers, sisters and daughters For we become no different from the jackal that wipes its fangs, with its tongue, after a feast on it conquered prey. We will NOT look away, for we know better. How to show your support: * Take the pledge against sexual harassment * Join and like Be The Change Mzansi on Facebook. * Follow the Don't Look Away campaign on IOL * Follow us on the Facebook pages of Daily News, Cape Argus and The Star. 