The South Gauteng High Court has declared that Molefe Ramoea, the inspector, acted illegally. Judge Colin Lamont ruled that Ramoea’s two notices to close down the franchised bottle store were invalid and should, therefore, be set aside. Judge Lamont gave Simba Mazhande, the store’s franchisee, the green light to start trading immediately. Mazhande launched an urgent application before Judge Lamont to have Ramoea’s “abuse of power” condemned. In court papers that cited the GLB, its chairperson Fhedzisani Pandelani and Ramoea as respondents, Mazhande described the inspector’s action as “harassment that was detrimental” to his business and investment. The bottle store was closed for 11 days, losing about R69000 per day. Mazhande paid a further R500000 in legal fees, The Star has established. He will not recover this money because none of the respondents opposed his application in court. “(Ramoea) conducted himself in such a grossly deplorable manner as a peace officer and servant of the public,” Mazhande said. “If such conduct is not dealt with decisively, many businesses will be negatively impacted.” Mazhande asked the court to have Ramoea’s conduct investigated. He told the court that Ramoea arrived at the bottle store with a male who refused to identify himself. “(Ramoea) interfered with the normal running of the business by ordering customers to leave the premises and ordering that the premises be closed,” he said. Mazhande said the inspector then claimed he was shutting the business down because it was not complying with licence regulations. According to court papers, Ramoea accused the store of selling liquor to minors, trading outside prescribed hours and allowing customers to drink liquor and urinate near the entrance. These accusations were simply untrue, Mazhande argued in his papers. Mazhande received legal advice that Ramoea did not have authority to order closure of the bottle store prior to conducting an investigation. Mazhande did not plan to sue Ramoea because he did not foresee he could pay his legal costs, The Star has learnt. The GLB did not oppose the application in court. Chief director Raymond Martin did not reply to The Star’s email yesterday. Reached by telephone, Martin promised to reply to the email. He never did.