The South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) has revealed its bold plan to recognise the qualifications held by refugees and asylum seekers. Currently, migrants holding refugee and asylum permits were more likely to be blocked from continuing with their studies at South African institutions or finding employment, using their qualifications. As they were often forced to suddenly flee their violent-torn countries, they were in a worse off than migrants who had planned their relocation to South Africa. SAQA recognises the qualifications of foreigners arriving in the country for specific purposes such as studying or employment, but not those of refugees and asylum-seekers. The authority now plans to change this and give the refugees and their asylum counterparts a lifeline. Joe Samuels, SAQA’s chief executive, has invited public comments on the proposed law, detailing plans to recognise qualifications of refugees and asylum-seekers. “SAQA is conscious that refugees and asylum-seekers do not migrate by choice and face unique challenges to meet all the application criteria for evaluation of their qualifications,” said Samuels. “SAQA is committed to assisting asylum-seekers and refugees to overcome such challenges.” The African Diaspora Forum welcomed SAQA’s intentions. The organisation said it would make a submission in support of the proposed law. Vusumuzi Sibanda, its chairperson, told The Star that many educated asylum-seekers and refugees were forced into informal jobs, because their qualifications were not recognised. Sibanda said it was amiss that laws did not prohibit refugees and asylum-seekers from being employed, but did not allow for recognition of their qualifications. Refugees and asylum-seekers were effectively blocked from participating in the formal economy and paying income tax. “Asylum-seekers and refugees are allowed to work, but their qualifications are not recognised. This means they can only do jobs that do not consider their qualifications,” he said. Sibanda added that the status quo explained why many were car guards in malls and spaza shopkeepers. “A lot of them are running these spaza shops because their qualifications are not recognised,” said Sibanda. “Some have qualifications in crucial skills and the country can now increase the pool of qualified artisans.”