This is part of the higher education and training department’s bid to provide health services to the nearly 800 000 students at the country’s technical and vocational education and training (TVET) colleges. Universities in the country have always had campus clinics, but not the colleges formerly known as the Further Education Training (FET) institutions. Over the weekend, the Makwarela campus of Vhembe TVET, in Limpopo, became the latest college site to get a much-needed health facility. Minister of Higher Education and Training Naledi Pandor opened the campus college. The clinics are being rolled out to support First Things First, a campaign spearheaded by the Higher Education and Training HIV/Aids programme (HEAIDS). The campaign resulted in more than 200 000 HIV tests among students last year. “The First Things First programme provides you with on-campus education and services that empower you to protect yourselves,” Pandor told Vhembe TVET’s students. “The package of services provided through the HEAIDS First Things First programme at the college will assist you to get to know your HIV status, screen for STIs and access reproductive health services. “I encourage you to convince your partners and fellow students to get tested. I urge young people who have tested positive to use this opportunity to take better care of your health.” First Things First was part of efforts to ensure a healthy and HIV-free nation, Pandor said. “I believe that our educated youth and staff have the power to become change agents and help end Aids.” Official statistics showed that young women aged 15 to 24 are nearly twice as likely to become infected with HIV, compared to any other age and gender group. Pandor said “transactional sex” was one of difficult social issues that needed to be addressed in tertiary education sector. “In the campus context it has become clear that any successful HIV programme has to deal with the empowerment of young women, the elimination of gender-based violence, the rights of LGBTI students, issues of masculinity, the mental stresses of student life, reckless alcohol use and so on,” said Pandor. Dr Ramneek Ahluwalia, chief executive of HEAIDS, said the clinics were a much-needed addition to the First Things First campaign “The availability of easy-to-reach, youth-friendly and free health services on campus are vital components of the support we provide to the tertiary community in order to enable it to improve academic success and graduation rates.”