Johannesburg - The day before a student pilot crashed into a Vorna Valley home, an instructor had noted that she had "frozen" on the controls during the final approach for landing. That meant that she would concentrate on the numbers without looking along the runway which would, in most cases, lead to the loss of depth perception resulting in a hard landing. This is contained in the report from the South African Civil Aviation Authority (SACAA) on their preliminary investigations into the deadly crash of October 8 which left the student and a gardener dead. The plane, a Cessna 172, was also destroyed. Although the report does not mention the student's name, aviation sources identified her as Kutlwano. According to the report, Kutlwano started her flight training at the Lanseria Flight Centre on 10 June 2018 and got her student pilot licence on 26 July. On the day of the accident, she had accumulated 34 hours of flying excluding the ones she flew that day. She had completed her initial solo flight on 13 September and had on the day of the accident flown five solo circuit training flight. The accident occurred on her sixth solo circuit training flight. On that fateful day, Kutlwano flew from the Grand Central Airport at 08.33. She was supposed to remain in circuit and practise touch-and-go landings at the Grand Central Airport runway.  The SACAA describes a touch-and-go landing as a landing with just enough time on the ground to reconfigure the plane for another take-off. Its purpose is to compress more landings (and take-offs) into a flying lesson. "Following her fifth touch and go exercise and while the aircraft was on the upwind leg, another Cessna 172 with registration ZS-SCB entered the left-hand circuit for runway 35 on an early downwind. The student pilot flying the accident aircraft was requested by the air traffic controller (ATC) at the Grand Central Airport to enter the downwind leg behind the aircraft ZS-SCB." The report states that at 09:16, Kutlwano was requested to carry out one orbit to the right- a 360 degree one turn manoeuvre-  due to the short distance between the two aircrafts. "At 09.17, an inaudible transmission was heard on the Grand Central Airport tower frequency. Immediately after this transmission, the air traffic controller attempted multiple times to make radio contact with the accident aircraft, but it was to no avail," the reports states. SACAA says while investigations were still ongoing, they established the following: -The aircraft was issued with an initial certificate of airworthiness on September 1, 2008, with an expiry date of 30 September 2019. -The last mandatory periodic inspection (MPI) prior to the accident was carried out on 4 October 2018 and no defects were listed in the flight folio since the last MPI. -The Lanseria Flight Centre held a valid Training Approval Certificate. -The aircraft had been refuelled on the morning of the crash and by the time the student pilot commenced the flight, the aircraft still had a 3-hour flight endurance with the fuel that was on board the aircraft. "The SACAA investigation is on-going and we will be looking into other aspects of this accident, which may or may not have safety implications," the report concluded. 