Held at the Diamond Walk in Sandton City on Sunday night, the event commemorated its 22nd anniversary in a futuristic way, bringing out all the “avid diva” in South Africa’s A-listers. The SA Style Awards are a showcase of style and business innovators that continue to elevate the benchmark for excellence. A list of this year’s winners: Most Innovative Style: Maya Wegerif, also known as Sho Madjozi, is a musician and a poet. Most Stylish Performing Artist in Film or TV: Linda Mtoba, an actress who rose to fame after being cast as Zama on the Mzansi Magic soapie Isibaya. Most Stylish Performing Artist in Music: Zinhle Jiyane, aka DJ Zinhle, who is a club DJ and founder of Fuse Academy (FUSE), a deejaying academy for females. She is also the local celebrity partner of Prive Revaux and owner of Era by Dj Zinhle, an accessories brand that specialises in watches and bracelets.  Most Stylish Media Personality: Lerato Kganyago is a radio and TV presenter, model, businesswoman and socialite. With her compelling personality, passion and talent, Kganyago has been proving herself to be a driving force in the industry. Most Stylish Social Media Personality: Sarah Langa Mackay, a fashion and lifestyle blogger who’s the IT girl within the fashion industry. Most Stylish Designer Fashion and Interior: Rich Mnisi (Fashion), Gregor Jenkin (Design). Mnisi is a fashion designer who breeds new layers and visions inspired by sources outside of the realm of fashion, including film, music, art and nature, being immersed but measured, picking up only the fitting notes to gather as foundation. Jenkin is an interior designer who is the first African designer to feature at Design Miami. Most Stylish Model: Ansolet Rossouw. One of SA’s top models, she has modelled for almost all the haute couture show names, including Valentino, Chanel and Dolce & Gabbana. Most Stylish Business Personality: Johanna Mukoki, an award-winning entrepreneur, global motivational speaker and co-founder of Travel with Flair. Most Stylish Couple: Nandi Madida and Zakes Bantwini. They are dominant in the music industry as Nandi is a singer/songwriter while Zakes is also a singer and a producer.   Most Stylish SA Icon: Billie Zangewa, who is a local artist with international recognition. She has showcased at international exhibitions, including at the Paris Art Fair, and headlined the JoburgArtFair 2018. The Next Big Thing: Karabo Poppy Moletsane, a digital illustrator and designer. Committed and dedicated to the cultural preservation of the South African aesthetic, Moletsane produces vibrant visuals and uses the body as a tool for self-expression and creation. The awards ended with a sumptuous floating dinner, followed by a fashion party at the newly renovated Sandton Sun San Deck, where celebrity DJ Kimmy K graced the crowd with the hottest music hits.