Johannesburg - The safety of teachers at schools has once again been brought to the fore after the emergence of a video of a pupil attacking a teacher, hurling a brick at him and kicking him. In the video filmed at the Albertina Sisulu Special School in Soweto, a visibly scared teacher can be seen running from an enraged pupil. The pupil grabs a brick and hurls it at the teacher. In ducking the brick, the teacher falls and while he's on the ground, the pupil rushes to where he's lying down and kicks him. The teacher manages to get up and starts running. One of the female teachers asks the pupil: "What is your problem" and he responds: "I have been patient with him for a long time, today he will s**t himself." When she tries to stop him from going after the teacher he says to her: "Maam, leave me alone". Another female teacher grabs him but he wriggles out of her grip and starts running. The three female teachers, including the one recording, can be heard saying that police must be called. With the pupil hot on his heels, the teacher tries to flee but falls again. Finally, three men grab the pupil and lead him away from the teacher.      Speaking to the men, the pupil says: "I have been patient for a long time and it has now come to the point where we should beat each other up." When the men and other teachers remind him that it's his teacher that he is attacking, the pupil says: "I''m tired of Sammy. He's been ill-treating me for a long time. He might as well beat me up." The Gauteng Department of Education said the incident occurred on November 7. The latest incident comes two months after a 17-year old pupil from Ramotshere Secondary School in North West stabbed his 24-year-old maths teacher in full view of other pupils. Gadimang Mokolobate had allegedly reprimanded the pupil the previous day for jumping the queue at the school feeding scheme. The pupil brought the knife to school and stabbed Mokolobate. He was declared died upon arrival at the hospital. In the same month, a 15-year-old pupil drew out a firearm in class and threatened to shoot a teacher at the Eldorado Park Secondary School. A few months earlier, a pupil had been caught on video pelting an exercise book at her teacher in a classroom. Commenting on the latest incident, Gauteng education spokesperson Steve Mabona said the school is for severely mentally challenged learners. He said the pupil had attacked the teacher after he attempted to discipline him for making noise inside the school hall where the Common Wealth ambassador was busy donating wheelchairs. "The educator sustained minor injuries from falling and medical intervention was arranged. The learner is still allowed at school and due to the nature of his behavioural disability, cannot be suspended. We are facilitating a diversion programme for the learner to address his behavioural challenges. "The Psycho-Social Support team has been dispatched to the school to offer counselling to all affected by this incident," he said. Mabona said information at their disposal suggests that challenges pupils face at home influence the anti-social behaviour they displayed at school sch as attacking teachers. "Other variables identified as causative factors for unacceptable learner conduct are parental neglect, absent fathers, strain of single parent families, child headed families and unfavourable conditions in communities. Simply, learner ill-discipline is a challenge," Mabona said. The South African Democratic Teachers' Union's (Sadtu)  Mugwena Maluleke said by attacking teachers, pupils were only mimicking what  they see in their communities where problems are resolved through violence. Maluleke, who is Sadtu's General Secretary, said some of the resolutions they have taken as a union to stop these incidents were to be on the ground to ensure that attacks on teachers were reported to the police and social workers because they were a  reflection of societal problems. He also said it was important for parents to take responsibility for their children's behavior. "Violence has been normalised and children see it as a way of resolving problems as they see their parents being violent during service delivery protests. The violence is a reflection of the society in which these children live, it has become their reality," he said. Mabona said there were a few strategies that the department had come with to end these attacks such as hosting parenting workshops aimed at strengthening parent/guardian involvement in supervising homework and instilling learner discipline in and outside the school environment. Another one, he said, was a partnership with the Department of  Social Development and Community Safety as well as NGOs. The Star