These were the words of a mother whose now 7-year-old daughter was one of the girls allegedly violated by 58-year-old Johannes Molefe, the former patroller at a Soweto primary school. Molefe is facing three counts of rape and 11 of sexual assault for shocking acts he allegedly committed at the Soweto school. The mother, who will remain anonymous to protect the child's identity, was speaking on Monday outside the South Gauteng High Court, sitting in the Palmridge Magistrate’s Court. Molefe was making his first trial appearance for the alleged acts he committed on schoolgirls, some of whom were as young as 6 years old. The 58 year old Molefe was arrested in October last year after several parents blew the whistle on his alleged lewd deeds on girls. “My daughter is doing well. She is in Grade 1 now and loves her schooling. The counselling she received after her ordeal went a long way to helping her,” the mother said. The State prosecutor advocate Jackie Steyn asked for a postponement to tomorrow as the courtroom where the case was to be heard had another matter on the roll. Acting Judge Peet Johnson granted the postponement. Phindile Singe, a Soweto community leader who spoke on behalf of other parents yesterday, said all they wanted was for justice to be served for the children and the community. “We had challenges which I can't divulge now, but we managed to rise above those challenges which almost disturbed this case. “As members of the community, we are expecting that there should be a conviction. But we are mindful that the State must prove beyond reasonable doubt that there was any crime committed,” Singe said. It was a packed courtroom yesterday as Molefe made his first trial appearance, with dozens of family and community members pleading for their children to get justice. Looking meek in the dock, the clean shaven Molefe said he understood why the case had to be postponed. The rape accused declined bail, and will remain in custody until his trial concludes. @khayakoko88