For years, the group has been performing their hits at end-of-year festivals and setting the mood for a silly season full of music and dance. This will be no different as the duo, made up of Nhlanhla Nciza and Theo Kgosinkwe, headline the 10th edition of the Birchwood Comes Alive Jazz evening tomorrow night. The duo will be belting out a string of their fans' favourite hits, from Ndihamba Nawe to Kucheza. The Afropop sensation will be joined by The Levites, Neo Dube and comedian Tol A$$ Mo on the Birchwood Hotel and OR Tambo Conference Centre stage in Boksburg. Making headlines for the past two decades and having racked up multiple awards, Mafikizolo is not just your traditional Afropop group. They took home three Samas for best engineered album, best Afropop album and Duo/Group of the Year. The release of their album, 20, last year was a celebration of their achievements in the music industry. Returning to the Birchwood stage are The Levites, a group of eight budding musicians who will showcase their skills in front of an audience that truly appreciates music. The band is made up of vocalists, saxophonists, a bass guitarist, a lead guitarist, a keyboard player and a drummer. The group has been performing a variety of house, jazz and Afropop music for four years. Inspired by Hugh Masekela and Miriam Makeba, they aim to bring a modern take on the sounds of Africa. Highlighting up-and-coming talent tops the agenda at the jazz evenings and, with this ethos in mind, soul and jazz songstress Neo Dube will be opening the evening. The 21-year-old, who released her first album, Usengowami, last year, has big dreams of presenting on radio and gaining international acclaim in the years to come. TV personality and comedian Tol A$$ Mo (Mongezi Mahlangu) will be bringing his well-known style of comedy to the star-studded line-up. A local reality star with his wife, Mome, in the TV series Mo Love on Vuzu, he has also appeared in a variety of comedy shows, talk shows, prank shows and films and was a contestant on MasterChef SA in 2015. If you haven't yet bought your ticket, make sure to visit www.birchwoodhotel.co.za or call 011 897 0024. Tickets are R450 per person or R4500 for a table of 10, including a three-course buffet and table wine.