 The author of the highly controversial book, Bare: The Blessers Game, has written another book about being gagged on social media and her experience following a court battle with celebrity couple Basetsana and Romeo Kumalo after a series of tweets claiming there was “a sex tape involving the husband of a well-known media mogul with a younger rapper".  The court had ordered Phamotse not to make comments about Basetsana on social media in future. However, this has not deterred Phamotse. In the last three months, she has written a book about the court case.  Ahead of the launch, Phamotse shared a picture of a police van escorting her from the highway to her place on Twitter.  “This is my reality! Got followed home again, almost got pushed out of the road! I am not going to back down come hell or high waters I am releasing this book on Thursday! Thank you to the @SAPoliceService for helping out!,” she tweeted.  Phamotse claimed that she was followed by two unmarked cars and that is why she hired a heavy security team for the launch.  “I went to Pretoria for a meeting preparing for the launch. I was driving from Braamfontein and I stopped in Rivonia and then went to Pretoria then I noticed them.  “When I was coming back, they were still following me driving bumper to bumper. Every time I changed lanes, they would come to the same lane. So they were following me most of the day. It was two brand new Jeeps and the windows were very dark. When I went Olifantsfontein Road, they tried to drive me out of the road,” she said.  Although this has apparently been happening for a couple of months, Phamotse hasn’t opened a case. In the latest incident, she said police advised her “to take note of what is happening and should anything happen again, we need to report it.”  Phamotse said she didn’t invite anyone mentioned or quoted on the book because “I feel like I have spoken to them already.I have experienced this people already and I am addressing issues that they may not want the public to know hence this is a private event. They will try to block the process, the book before it comes out.”   The book will be available for pre-order from December 1.