That is how Yanga Sobetwa felt when she was crowned this year’s SA Idols winner after a record vote count. Yanga, who won season 14 of Idols in a hugely compelling climax for the reality singing competition, said she was glad that “her dream finally came true” on Sunday. “I have always wanted to win Idols. Singing has always been part of my life. I am so excited that I won and that I inspired millions of people,” she said. Speaking to The Star, the 17-year-old from Delft, outside Cape Town, said she looked forward to spending some time in a studio recording her album. “I have worked hard to be where I am today. Next year is going to be greater because I will be recording my album. I look forward to getting gigs and putting my name out there. “I am going to work hard and do my best. I will ensure that I put my name out there and give my fans good music that will last for a long time,” she said. The battle between Yanga and Thato Makape saw huge ratings on M-Net’s Mzansi Magic channel on Sunday night, and set the voting record, with millions of votes cast. Yanga said she had been nervous during the competition, but prayer kept her going. “My love for what I do and prayer kept me going. Each time I went on stage I gave it all. And it finally paid off.” Throughout the competition, Yanga was supported by her family, neighbours and fans. Her mother Linda said that when Yanga was announced the winner, she was excited and overwhelmed. “I told God that ‘this is your child. You know what is best for her’. I looked at Proverb’s mouth when he made the announcement. I heard that Yanga performed after the announcement, I didn't watch because I was over the moon,” she said. Yanga’s father Ayanda recalled the times when he would drive her to auditions. “When Yanga told us about Idols, we were worried about her age and school. We wanted her to focus on school. She told us how she really wants to do this, and we gave her our blessings. “I would drive to auditions and sit the whole day waiting for her to finish. As a parent it is my duty to support her,” he said. Although Yanga will be working on her music, her father said she would he watching her school work very closely. She will be doing Grade 12 next year. Yanga described her sound as pop mixed with gospel. She said she would like to work with Khaya Mthethwa, Ntokozo Mbambo and the Dube brothers.