On Wedesday, police were at pains trying to locate the whereabouts of the man Mashaba handed to them on Monday. Metro police spokesperson Wayne Minnaar said the man was arrested and taken to Hillbrow police station. He was later transferred to Joburg Central. “We can confirm that he is an undocumented foreign national and therefore cannot confirm his name before he appears in court," provincial police spokesperson Captain Mavela Masondo said: “We cannot confirm or deny that he was detained at Joburg Central. I checked with Hillbrow and they say he is not there.” Miriam Tsebe, a fellow trader from Soweto, said she had not seen him since Mashaba’s arrest, which he later tweeted, saying such business would result in the outbreak of diseases. This triggered some backlash from social media users who accused him of killing small business. Mashaba apologised for the tweets on Wednesday, adding that the city’s health inspectors would forge partnerships with formal and informal traders “to understand the safety standards of the city and why they are so important”. “I also apologise for what has appeared to be insensitivity towards the plight of informal traders in our city, attempting to earn a living. “With the benefit of hindsight, I can appreciate how my comment offended people with its insensitivity,” he said. However, Musa Novela, the EFF’s Joburg regional chairperson, blasted the mayor for being oblivious to the plight of the poor and his failure to manage the city. “This incident has proven that Mashaba has no idea how to run Joburg and he has no future plans to help the plight of the poor. He is businessman who also started in the informal trading business before he got his millions.” Nonceba Molwele, from the ANC’s social development caucus, said Mashaba’s sudden apology was a political game. “He wouldn’t have done so had it not been a political pressure he was getting from the EFF. “An honest man was arrested and blacks who eat skop (cow heads) have been undermined,” Molwele said.