Johannesburg- Thirty years after releasing his best-selling book ‘Mind Power’, author John Kehoe returns to South Africa as part of his sell-out Final World Tour. The author, who is in his 72, will also be releasing his first single at his Johannesburg seminar on 10 and 11 November at The Hilton, Sandton. Mind Power is based on an unorthodox and mindset-challenging theory and was translated in over 20 languages. It has sold over three million copies and was voted by South African booksellers as one of the top 25 best non-fiction books of all time, Kehoe’s Final World Tour will end in Johannesburg after selling out in Russia, New Zealand, Kazakhstan, Canada, the USA and the Ukraine. Kehoe, who has been described as a fascinating individual and innovator throughout his career, was expected to  bring his new quantum teachings to his final seminar as well as share his insights – and his music – with South Africa. He  will also be launching a rap single whose message is about the power of the mind. "I have always followed what calls me and music is now calling me. I also want to do it while I’m still young," the 72 year old man said. Kehoe, who describes himself as having a love affair with South Africa after he first toured the country following the cultural boycott was lifted in 1992, said he considers Johannesburg his second home. He plans to release a series of singles, which he describes as experimental, before releasing his first album in 2019 in collaboration with musicians from around the world. Kehoe also plans to spend the next few months scouting for local talent. “Music is a powerful way to create the spark that will change people’s lives, because you reach the subconscious with repetition, which is part of my teaching. If you enjoy listening to a song and if it has a powerful message, it will enter your subconscious. Music is a perfect fit for me at this point in my career and I’m excited to begin this new adventure.” To book for John Kehoe’s Mind Power | Quantum Leap Live seminar, featuring protege Robin Banks and including new work not previously presented, go to www.finaltour.co.za. The Star is offering one lucky reader an opportunity to attend John Kehoe’s Final Mind Power, Quantum Leap Tour in Johannesburg on Saturday, 10 and Sunday, 11 November. To stand a chance to win, SMS JOHN followed by your name, surname and email address to 33258. Terms and conditions apply. SMS costs R1.50 Competition closes on Thursday at Midnight. Follow the conversation on Twitter and Facebook #JohnKehoeFinalTour. 