rAInbow uses artificial intelligence and storytelling to help victims of domestic violence find support through prevention, intervention and access to resources. The smart companion was developed following research and focus groups conducted by Soul City, in which it interviewed victims of domestic violence to better understand how they seek help. It can be accessed 24/7 via Facebook Messenger, and provides a safe space for domestic violence victims to access information about their rights, support options, and where they can find help in friendly, simple language. Advocacy manager at Soul City Matokgo Makutoane said disruptive technology would be used to protect women from abuse. “Anyone can share their stories of abuse. It provides a safer space for abused partners. I believe the app will inspire other women to share their stories. “It is important that women acquire new skills that come with technology. If we have the will of innovation, we can end the scourge,” Makutoane said. Sage Foundation partnered with AI for Good and Soul City Institute for Social Justice to launch rAInbow. rAInbow aims to democratise access to information and support for victims of intimate-partner violence (commonly referred to as domestic violence), as well as their friends and family. AI head at Sage and founder of AI for Good, Kriti Sharma, said people were realising the potential of exponential technologies and innovation to solve social challenges. “We expect rAInbow to give us insights that can lead to social and governance reform, which can significantly contribute to ongoing change and improved safety of women in society. “rAInbow is friendly, reassuring, and will never judge or tell victims what to do or put them at risk. Rather, it will provide useful information and guidance, and encourage victims to seek support from their friends and family. The stories that rAInbow tells are an effective way to inform victims about their rights,” she said. rAInbow will also be available in other platforms in the months to come. @SthembisoMedia