A group of attorneys from the Johannesburg Attorneys’ Association (JAA) and the Gauteng Attorneys’ Association claim they are receiving a number of complaints from residents who have not been able to log complaints at the city revenue department centres, or even over the phone. Many fear they will be cut off as they cannot get reference numbers. Residents have also been told that the city did not have sufficient printers and scanners to handle multiple or bulk queries, resulting in people having to queue for hours for one query. Call centre operators are also refusing to allow people to log queries where the matter relates to a refund, prescription, a closed account or any allegation that a meter reading is wrong. Louis Kruger, chairperson of JAA property committee, said: “This is resulting in members of the public being denied the right to raise a dispute with the municipality in relation to problems that they have with their accounts. This is because the municipal officials are required to scan in the supporting documents that the customer provides to explain their dispute. There are literally hundreds (or even thousands) of customers who have not been able to log queries/raise disputes as a result of this problem. “This is a violation of their rights in terms of the Consumer Protection Act, Promotion of Administration of Justice Act, the Constitution and potentially even the National Credit Act (not to mention a violation of the provisions of the city’s own by-laws and policies that allow customers to raise disputes/queries,” he added. However, Kruger said he and other attorneys had met with city officials this week about the problems experienced by customers trying to log queries with the call centre and Braamfontein walk-in centre. “It was a very productive meeting and the city committed to come to the party,” he said. The city promised that more scanners would be procured, that they would retrain call centre operators and that bulk backlogs would be attended to. Kutlwano Olifant, spokesperson for MMC for finance Fundela Ngobeni, said: “We found it very useful, and left with the impression that it was progressive. The meeting was set to understand the JAA’s challenges; and confidentially share our future plans. We by no means expected, nor were we informed, that the details of our meeting would be made public - especially since we agreed to follow-up with more concrete answers next week. “Of specific concern is the fact that they are soliciting clients to raise their transfer related credit control queries, via their offices. We would like to correct this. We agreed that the attorneys may escalate their queries as they currently exist - in their normal course of business - between November 21 (the date of the meeting) and November 30 - when we agreed all scanners will be operational in Thuso House. “The city is obligated to treat all clients fairly and will not enter into any special agreements with any individual persons, consultants, or attorneys to deal our residents queries; unless through a formal legislated/open bidding process. “We are fully aware of the many challenges that exist. These were thoroughly discussed at the meeting and we are dedicated to addressing the issues raised by the JAA. We remain committed to ensuring that all our customers are the beneficiaries of a professional public service,” she said.