Cape Town - The official 16 Days of Activism for No Violence against Women and Children campaign has begun and this year has seen revelations of sexual harassment and of gender-based violence among celebrities and entertainers on an almost daily basis. #TheTotalShutdown campaign saw thousands of women across the country unite and take to the streets earlier this year in the fight against gender-based violence. Moreover, the local #MeToo campaign went viral to demonstrate the widespread prevalence of sexual harassment and harassment, especially in the workplace. SWIFT - Sisters Working in Film and Television - launched the #ThatsNotOk campaign, aimed at making the South African film and television industry safer for women. These campaigns created a whirlwind of women speaking out about their experiences. SABC’s Expresso presenter, actress and radio personality Mosa Kaiser, said: “Men need to call each other out. They are the perpetrators; they are the only ones who can stop this with positive movements such as #NotInMyName. It’s also important to not give sexual harassment our energy in a negative light, but in a positive way to move forward and work beyond just making a positive hashtag trend such as #NotInMyName.” Kaiser added that woman empowerment in the film and television industry would assist the industry to progress. “We need to not only look at woman empowerment from a patriarchal view, but also from a view where we encourage women to uplift each other and say no to a society that puts us against one another.” Female presenters of the medium-wave radio station Magic 828 shared their insights on the issue. News reporter and breakfast show host Khanya Sosibo said: “Unfortunately, I have experienced sexual harassment in its varying degrees. Sexual harassment is deeply rooted in the patriarchal way of existence, that says power and strength is overbearing and, to an extent, violent. I personally believe it is more a violent behaviour than a sexual/physical attraction or appreciation. In my view it seeks to humiliate, disempower and victimise.” Sosibo said in the workplace, where there are professionals and peers, gender bias plays out as sexual harassment and other forms of bullying. She further notes that it is often disguised as “appreciation” or humour which places a burden on the victim to prove it occurred, rather than calling out the perpetrators. “In my view sexual harassment is predominantly a ‘man’ issue and yet the responsibility of dealing with it is placed on the woman who has been subjected to it. This makes it even more challenging to address or call out, as a level of dignity is stripped away - and yet that dignity is what would give one the confidence and courage to speak up and speak out.” Men continue to dominate the top jobs but this is the year of women striving for greater gender diversity. Sosibo said: “A lot of industries the world over are still male dominated and the world of broadcasting is no exception. It is a reality, that men need to unlearn a lot of what they have come to accept as normal or acceptable behaviours. “There is still a long way to go, for our male counterparts, in terms of understanding that women haven’t become sensitive or lost their sense of humour. Instead. women are gaining their strength and courage and frankly have just had enough, and thus are speaking up.” Lunchbox show host for Magic 828 Tara Lee Essack said that although there had been many campaigns encouraging women to speak out about being sexually harassed, she believed that the majority of women were still not speaking out. “I think certain behaviours are normalised and this makes it difficult for women to put their foot down or speak out for fear of being labelled a troublemaker or being shamed,” she says. Essack said comments such as “stick with me, I’ll make you famous” or invitations to hotel rooms were more common than one would think. “The notion that women are dependent on the males in the industry to grow and move forward needs to change. As a woman in the media, particularly in sports presenting, which is essentially still a boy’s club, when a woman walks into a media lounge it is assumed she is someone’s girlfriend, rather than a professional. “I have to work harder and have a really thick skin, but it’s okay, because I love what I do and will continue to do it even if it means having to change perceptions along the way for women who come after me, as women who have come before me have done.” Essack asserts. Jasnine Roberts, host of the Sakhisizwe (“Building the nation”) show at Bush Radio said inequality continued to remain an immense problem and women were required to work three times harder to get the recognition they deserve. “Over the years you learn to not just put that uncomfortable smile on any more. You speak out about it and tell the person in a nice way to stop making you feel uncomfortable irrespective of the person, because there are laws in place for a reason and it seems to work at times. “Women are just as qualified to do a job, but just because you’re a woman the ideas you contribute get shut down right away, but when it is suggested by a male then ‘Oh, right on, let’s go with it.’ It is time we stop living in the shadows and take a seat at the table.” How to show your support: * Take the pledge against sexual harassment by using the Don't Look Away Mzansi Facebook profile frame. * Join & like Be The Change Mzansi on Facebook. * Follow the Don't Look Away campaign on IOL * Follow us on the Facebook pages of Daily News, Cape Argus and The Star.