IT’S seven days of pool parties and beach parties to take away the stress of the exam period for the class of 2018. This year the Rage Festival is planning a more memorable time for the teenagers who’ll be flocking to the beaches of KwaZulu-Natal. “It’s a week filled with exhilarating experiences with some of the best artist in the country and it’s a chance for them to celebrate freedom after 12 years of going through school with the same people. And there comes a time where you are all going to go your separate ways and it’s that one last time together,” said Marina Oreb, marketing manager for the festival. This year the event will return to Ballito after being in Durban for the last four years. “This year we are building a mega club, it will be a first in South Africa and there will be more beach parties because everyone wants more day activities.” The festival is set to be one to remember with over 30 artists, including Black Coffee, DJ Speedsta and Riky Rick. “It’s important to note that each year there’s a new group of students that have never been to Rage before, every year is special because it’s always a first time experience.” The former pupils will also have a chance to showcase their talents with a rap/hip hop competition. Safety at the festival is planned ahead for this major event. “We work with the local police and various security companies to monitor the festival across multiple venues. That’s one of the biggest challenges. The festival takes place across the whole of Ballito and uMhlanga.” The Rage passports technology, the bands the teens wear on their wrists, allows the festival organisers to track, identify and act on any crisis situation. “Every Rager buys a passport and receive it on arrival with presentation of ID. The registration includes things like medical aid details, emergency contacts and insurance. Anything that can help with their safety. With a tap on their armband we can receive all that information on hand.” The festival will take place from November 30 to December 8 in Ballito, uMhlanga and Durban. The Star