ACTOR Chris Evans, also known as Captain America, spoke for so many when he posted his tribute on Twitter upon hearing of the death of Stan Lee: “There will never be another Stan Lee. For decades he provided both young and old with adventure, escape, comfort, confidence, inspiration, strength, friendship and joy. He exuded love and kindness and will leave an indelible mark on so, so, so many lives.” Kevin Feige, producer on every Marvel Cinematic Universe film, observed: “No one has had more of an impact on my career and everything we do at Marvel Studios than Stan Lee. Stan leaves an extraordinary legacy that will outlive us all.” Lee, the legendary comic book writer, editor and publisher of Marvel Comics whose creations made him a real-life superhero to comic book lovers everywhere, died on Monday at the age of 95. A superhero in his own right to Marvel fans around the world, he had the power to inspire, to entertain and to fire the imagination of many young boys and girls. Lee, who began in 1939 and created or co-created Black Panther, Spider-Man, the X-Men, the Mighty Thor, Iron Man, the Fantastic Four, the Incredible Hulk, Daredevil and Ant-Man, among countless other characters, was a legend in the true sense of the word. Yesterday on the 4am early bird show on 702 hosted by Relebogile Mabotja, Stan Lee was one of the topics of discussion, and callers were lamenting his death and reminiscing on how they grew up on a diet of his comics and movies. They related how he touched so many lives and allowed many youngsters to dream as children. They spoke of how he provided both young and old with adventure, escape, friendship and enjoyment. A man then called and asked the host if she remembered the many other comic characters that we grew up with, such as the irrepressible She. This was a popular comic book character, pretty yet stern, feminine yet tough, who tackled male ruffians. The call set my mind racing. I recalled those halcyon Seventies when we had plenty of South African comic books and photo magazines.  There was Mighty Man, Drifter in Rage, Samson and Flash. How about He-Man, and the overweight, but very cunning and amiable black detective Chunky Charlie? There were classic Afrikaans comic strips such as Ruiter in Swart and Opsaal, put out by Republican Press. There was also Speurder Loot Louw drawn by Andre de Beer. And the genteel romances Tanya and Sister Louise. As for Lee, in 2014 he said that his oft-repeated catchphrase “Excelsior!” meant: “Keep moving forward, and if it’s time to go, it’s time.  Nothing lasts forever. I’ve had a long enough life.” At 95, he may have had a long innings, but not long enough for his multitude s of fans. He will be sorely missed. Makgabutlane is an assistant editor at The Star. The Star