Laduma Ngxokolo, founder of fashion line Maxhosa by Laduma, is one of many panelists to join this year’s TedxJohannesburg, presented in the famous TED format. The event will take place on Friday November 30th in Midrand. The talk, under the theme Decoding Greatness, is also intended in celebrating the father of the nation Nelson Mandela – and others like him – in his centenary year while also presenting other greats who live in this day and age. For Laduma, he reckons that platforms such as these are another opportunity for South Africans to hear of how great and empowered they are, and how much greatness they can achieve, just like he was inspired many years ago to pursue his passion in design. “With the world coming down to visit us, I’d like to be the voice that remind us as South Africans that we are a magnificent people, that our cultures are not supposed to separate us but are to unite us as a people locally and globally, while also waking people up who have been sleeping on our beauty, sleeping on our commodities and overlooking everything that is around us,” said the designer. Laduma believes that our power comes from who we are, authentically. “Firstly we as South Africans need to realise that we are enough as we are. We need to realise that the world will constantly be looking for what is new because they remain hungry from being fed the same thing over and over again. So now as Africans, we need to show them that we are capable of being innovative, we are able to create things from A to Z and that we are a happy nation - despite the prevailing thoughts that South Africa is one of the worst places to live in.” “And now it is my chance to inspire others into believing in whatever they believe can make a difference in the world and that their thoughts are valid,” he added. Laduma will be joined by other accomplished professionals such as award winning director of commercials and music videos Tebogo Malope, chef and author of Through the Eyes of an African Chef Nompumelelo Mqwebu, double Olympic gold and bronze medalist swimmer Penny Heyns as well a journalist and author Sahm Venter. There will be other professionals coming from as far as Thailand, Kenya and the USA. “I stand for black culture as it is still important and will remain important to us forever. What happened to us is that the method of diminishing our greatness happened gradually, sort of like a generational curse that was passed onto us from our late grandmother's, parents etc. They were told or it was whispered to them that we believe in is barbaric and until it got to us. Personally, I think we lost touch with who we are decades ago, but now the responsibility to bring us back lies with us,” he added. Tackling the topic decoding greatness, he will deal with the importance of expressing oneself as an artist and standing for what one believes in, creatively. For this reason, Laduma believes that inspiration is everything. "I myself was inspired by a lot of people with positive thinking. Like my late mother, who was the most influential person in my life and other prominent figures here at home and around the world. I think for me that is the impact that speakers are called for," he said. 