The 34-year-old woman also has two children as a result of the alleged rape by her father. She was speaking on Thursday as the 53-year-old man appeared in court charged with raping and fathering another two children with the latest victim’s alleged young sister, 32. Speaking to The Star on Thursday, the woman said she opened a case against the man in 2012 but he was released three days later. She said she had given birth to two children, now aged 11 and 16, both were fathered by her biological dad, she said. “They do not know that their father is my father. I ran away from home and opened the case, but when it did not get anywhere, I just left it. I lived in fear because he beat us up all the time. “I had to go into hiding... He admitted that the children are his but not me. My sister and I are born of different mothers and I had been living with him since I was little. “The rape started when I was 9. That was before my sister came to live with us,” the former prison administrator said. She said the matter had taken a toll on her and that she was admitted to a mental institution three times because she was not coping. She said she had been diagnosed with depression and had had to quit her job in December. She said she last saw her father two years ago and was happy that her sister had opened a case. “If he can just remain there (in jail). I will support her. This is what I wanted. “I have given police my statement and I will testify,” she said, adding that she was considering reopening the case against the man. Lenasia police spokesperson Captain Mbulaheni Netshivhodza confirmed that the woman opened a case but said the matter had been withdrawn in court. He said he did not know whether there were further instructions on the case. Meanwhile, the accused made startling claims in court when he said the alleged younger daughter was, in fact, his wife. In his affidavit presented to the Protea Regional Court during his bail application, the man said he had paid lobolo for the woman and denied that she was his daughter. The man admits that the woman’s two children are his. His lawyer, only known as Advocate Nukeri, said the man had paid lobolo for the woman but does not have a marriage certificate. “The State is indicating that the accused and the complainant are father and daughter. We beg to differ. If that was the case, the State was going to open a case of incest against the accused. “I have since consulted with the accused’s family. They have indicated to me that the accused and the complainant are husband and wife. They are disputing that they are father and daughter. “On instruction, I was told that lobolo was paid but did not have a marriage certificate,” Nukeri said. He said the woman who was present in court, had told him that she wanted to withdraw the charges. “The complainant in this matter is before court... She is coming to withdraw the charges against the accused,” Nukeri said. He said his client had been having sexual intercourse with the woman since 2000 and that since then no case had been opened. The children are now aged 8 and 14 and reportedly had no idea their father was also their mother’s biological dad. Prosecutor Bradley Chepape said neither he nor the investigating officer had been informed by the woman that she wants to withdraw the charges. He said there was medical evidence that proves the woman, a qualified paramedic, was raped and assaulted. Magistrate P Naidoo denied bail, saying the State had a strong case and that the accused had failed to provide the court with exceptional circumstances to warrant bail to be granted. The case was postponed to next week.