Johannesburg - Fresh allegations of child rape have emerged at an illegal hospice just two months after another abused girl was removed from the centre.Sources at Sparrow Village in Florida, on the West Rand, said a seven-year-old girl was allegedly raped by an 18-year-old at the hospice last Saturday. This is the second rape to be reported in two months. The hospice, founded by Corine McClintock, continues to operate despite the Gauteng Department of Social Development confirming that it was ordered to shut down in 2014 after allegations of rape were reported. The board was then dissolved. A source said: “The little girl and her 14-year-old sister stayed at the home after they were abandoned by their mother, who left them to stay with her boyfriend years ago. “The rape was reported by the child's sister to a caregiver and she was immediately taken to hospital for medical attention,” said the source. “She is still recovering in hospital.” Police spokesperson Sergeant Mpho More confirmed that the 18-year-old was arrested for rape and had appeared in the Roodepoort Magistrate’s Court last Tuesday. “Investigations are still under way, however. We cannot divulge anything further on the case,” More said. On October 18, The Star reported that young boys from disadvantaged backgrounds end up graduating to become fully-fledged criminals at the hospice. An eight-year-old girl was allegedly repeatedly raped by another 18-year-old at the home for over a year. She was removed from the home in September. When contacted for comment at the time, Social Development spokesperson Mbangwa Xaba said the department would investigate. Last week, he said they were aware that the hospice was still operating. “We may have to broaden our social work because we have established that the place is being treated as renting facilities and not a centre. We are saddened by the rapes and will be taking the necessary steps to make sure that these issues are addressed,” Xaba said. “We are working with the community and family to do the necessary processes and restorative justices for the child who was raped in September. With regards to the latest incident, the child will also be included in these processes,” he said. McClintock last week denied the rape claims, among other things. She threatened The Star with legal action. When The Star visited the home last month, McClintock refused to let the team leave the premises, while she swore at a worker ordering that the gates be closed, blocking the exit. According to the organisation's website, Sparrow Village operates as a hospice and children's home that offers outreach programmes. It says McClintock is an ordained pastor. Shaheda Omar, director of clinical services at the Teddy Bear Clinic, said she was not sure how far the Department of Social Development's investigation had progressed, but said it was imperative for them to take a rapid risk assessment to avoid similar situations from taking place. “A formal assessment should have taken place and the children should have been removed from the home to unravel and investigate safety issues. "Another child was raped; it is unjustifiable and it cannot be condonable that the same thing has occurred at the same facility again,” Omar said. The Star