This has added to the 5% patient increase at Gauteng public health facilities. Gauteng MEC for Health Gwen Ramokgopa said on Thursday there was increasing pressure on services, adding that the impact of the reduction of funding over the medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF) period in the aftermath of the global recession “is still substantive”. “Our staff at the frontline of services are the reason for the resilience demonstrated by the health system over the past years, including carrying additional loads of patients from other provinces, from other countries and from the private sector, as we have realised and have been informed that the number of lives covered by medical aids has shrunk,” Ramokgopa said at a media briefing held at Rahima Moosa Mother and Child Hospital in Coronationville, Joburg. “The GCRO (Gauteng City-Region Observatory) also has shown that the public sector demand increased by 5%. More than 26 million patient visits were serviced in the 2017/18 financial year. Gauteng is a victim of its own successes,” Ramokgopa said. She added that if National Health Insurance (NHI) was not fast-tracked, the health system in Gauteng “will remain in a crisis”. “Health suffered. Its projected MTEF funding was not realised and that spans from 2009 and 2011. That created a huge hole in the funding of the health system and that has had a significant impact on the ability of the Gauteng Department of Health to cope with the demand for services,” Ramokgopa said. She said that “against all odds, Gauteng prides herself as number one for having the highest proportion of ideal clinics in the country, as accredited by the national Department of Health”. “Seventy-nine percent of the 372 primary healthcare facilities attained the ideal-clinic status, from silver to platinum. For a facility to be recognised as an ideal clinic it should have good infrastructure, adequate staff and medicine supplies as well as good administrative systems and sufficient bulk supplies. The clinic should also implement applicable clinical policies, protocols and guidelines,” Ramokgopa said. She added that the Maternal and Neonatal Service Improvement Plan had been a focal point this year, with an additional R100million reprioritised in the budget adjustment to ease pressure areas such as a critical shortage of staff, infrastructure upgrading and business process improvements in maternity obstetrics units, as well as in maternity and neonatal wards. “This is in addition to posts approved earlier this year. A further 50 ultrasound machines will be purchased this year. Two CT scans and two linear accelerator machines will also be added to regional and central hospitals respectively,” she said. At least nine babies died from necrotising enterocolitis at Rahima Moosa, the only mother-and-child hospital in Africa. Hospital chief executive Frew Benson said the hospital delivered 13000 babies a year, adding that they had a very low mortality rate.