Johannesburg - King Monada's new song Malwedhe has taken South Africa by storm. However, it could also lead fans to an early grave if they are not careful. This was the warning from Road Traffic Management Corporation's Simon Zwane regarding the dangers of what King Monada's fans were doing in which they simulate fainting while still behind the wheel while singing along, resulting in them having their eyes off the road for a few seconds. He said what was happening was dangerous as it compromises a driver’s ability to maintain steady a vehicle on the road. "The time you take your eyes off the road can lead to a fatal crash. This is dangerous," he said. In the song, King Monada sings about developing fainting spells when his lover cheats on him, does not give him money and eventually breaks up with him. The song later led to what came to be known as the #IdibalaChallenge (fainting challenge) in which people took videos of themselves simulating a fainting spell.       In the videos, the people would be singing along to the song but when it comes to the part that talks about fainting they would fall in a heap on the floor as if they had just fainted. They would get up, sing, and when it gets to the fainting part, thrown themselves on the ground again.       However, some people took the challenge up a notch by recording themselves simulating fainting spells while driving.      In the video that Zwane saw, two paramedics, still in their uniforms, don't have their seatbelts on. The male paramedic is driving while his female colleague is on the passenger seat singing along while recording the action. The song is playing and as soon as it gets to the fainting part, both throw their heads either to the side or on their chests. Zwane said what was happening was distracted driving and "seriously comprises a driver’s ability to maintain steady a vehicle on the road"       "It is in the same category as texting and driving. Many fatal crashes are caused by this. It is worse for these two (paramedics) because they are not wearing safety belts. Crashes happen within a split of a second and drivers should keep full concentration on the road. Motorists should desist from this practice. It is dangerous and places the lives of road users at risk." The Star