Chris Hani Baragwanath Academic Hospital has rejected claims that it turned away and refused former Gauteng Transport MEC Khabisi Mosunkutu treatment. This follows a report in the Sowetan on Tuesday in which Mosunkutu's wife, Nonqaba, said she had taken him to Bara when his health deteriorated on Monday because he had been receiving treatment there for months. Nonqaba, who works at Bara as a casualty ward matron, said they were seen by a doctor and given medication but that problems arose when physiotherapy referral was made. She said the physiotherapist refused to assist them and rudely told them to go to South Rand Hospital as it is closer to their Kibler Park home. The paper also said Nonqaba broke down in tears as she described how her husband nearly fell off the wheelchair while they were in the consultation room, while she desperately pleaded for him to get help. The Star has seen a detailed report compiled by the hospital to the Gauteng Health Department in which the former rejects that they refused to assist the Mosunkutus. In the report, the hospital indicates that Mosunkutu  arrived at the hospital on Tuesday with Nonqaba and that physiotherapy referral was given at 11:30. “She was attended to by the clerk who sought advice on booking from the neurology chief physiotherapist. The chief physiotherapist advised the clerk to refer the patient to South Rand hospital as the patient resides in Kibler Park (as per hospital policy.) “The physiotherapist doing screening was unaware of the fact that an instruction to refer the patient to South Rand hospital was already given. The physiotherapist proceeded to assist the patient and his wife by screening the file. Initially, the physiotherapist offered to book the patient an appointment at Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital but then realised that the patient resided out of the hospital's catchment area and also referred the patient to South Rand hospital,” the report states. Apparently, Nonqaba told the physiotherapist that she works at Bara hence she wanted to bring her husband there “for physiotherapy and did not want to go to South Rand hospital”. The physiotherapist’s supervisor also confirmed that the former MEC had to be referred to South Rand hospital which is closer to their home Kibler home and that didn’t sit well with Nonqaba, the report says. It is alleged that Nonqaba, approached the chief physiotherapist who was at the time busy with another patient and said that she was told by doctors that her husband should receive physiotherapy at Bara. "The chief physiotherapist explained to Mr Mosunkutu that all patients requiring physiotherapy services residing out of the hospital catchment were referred accordingly as per hospital policy. In addition, the physiotherapist, explained that neurology and neurosurgery were specialised services only provided at tertiary academic hospitals while physiotherapy was available at all levels of care ab could be accessed accordingly," the report continues. The report goes on to state that Nonqaba refused to have a further conversation with the chief  physiotherapist and walked out, saying she would contact the hospital's CEO. DA Gauteng Shadow MEC for Health Jack Bloom said he was saddened by the matter. He said the hospital had a leadership crises and that a new CEO had to be appointed. “In general, I don’t think anyone should receive preferential treatment but this unfortunately is far too common at Bara where staff are rude. People have to wait the whole day and get refused services. So there is a general problem at the hospital. “They haven’t had a replacement of the CEO since January last year. This hospital needs real leadership,” Bloom said. The hospital acting spokesperson Zenzo Ndabula said there was no formal complaint and that an investigation was underway. @SthembisoMedia