there's no time to tweet between taxi rank, construction site, and street. Only clutch your bag to your body Your body to yourself Yourself to this thought please don't talk to me please don't talk to me please don't talk to me please don't talk to me  Thanks for the hashtag, but there's no time to tweet in the boardroom or by the photocopy machine. Power pinches the purse strings, and Makes you puppet Everybody knows The puppet master's hands like to slip below the neck Below the hem, below the waist. But the show must go on, so The audience claps. And claps. And claps its way to a 13th cheque. * Human Resources is currently out of office/offline*   Thanks for the hashtag, but there's no time to tweet in vestry or confession booth. Scriptures are interpreted behind smoke-screens, between a collar and a robe. The pulpit is now a bookshelf of bodies, and God was cast out a long time ago to make space: "And the spirit of silence descended on them like tongues of fire. "Their tongues were on fire, and no one said anything. "They swallowed the ash."  Thanks for the hashtag, but there is no time to tweet in Parliament or court. We're in the business of cooking laws To serve justice to the vulnerable. First, a few questions to prove your innocence: Did you say NO? Do your clothes say NO? Your values, your virtues, your life? How long have you lived as a NO?   We put it to the court, that when you said NO (or couldn't say it at all), you really meant YES! We submit, your Honour, that what matters is not what she says, it is what he believes he heard.   Thanks for the hashtag, but There's no 
 
  time to tweet There's no network here Data is expensive here How do you explain Twitter here? Or a hashtag for that matter? My aunt, my cousin, my grandmother don't speak English here.   There's no time to tweet here The police ask what I did to deserve it here The docket is for sale here They family wants to solve this as a family here They pay damages to make things right here The lecturer fails you here The principal is king here The prophet is father here The breadwinner must not be questioned here The bread must not be endangered here The neighbours mind their own business here They say I'll ruin the family here They say bekezela here They say "don’t try be clever" here They say they'll teach me a lesson here They say they want to "fix" me here They say "smile" here. The trend is #wearedyinghere.  How to show your support: * Take the pledge against sexual harassment * Join and like Be The Change Mzansi on Facebook. * Follow the Don't Look Away campaign on IOL * Follow us on the Facebook pages of Daily News, Cape Argus and The Star.