The 17-year-old broke her silence a couple of months ago, alleging that her aunt’s husband started raping her when she was only 12. The parents, who cannot be named to protect the identity of the child, claim their daughter has also been sexually groomed and was shown pornographic material. The girl’s mother said the last time the man raped her daughter was on Christmas Day last year. “My parents lived with my sister and the perpetrator. My aunt, who has also given her witness statement, is the one who told us that we need to take our daughter from my mom and dad. My daughter lived with my parents. This man had clear access to my daughter, any time, any day,” said the mother. “Everybody in the house knew about this. The grandparents, the wife and the aunt. Nobody did anything,” said the girl’s father. They claimed that when the aunt told them to take the child away from the grandparents, she never told them she was being sexually abused. “My daughter asked for a key to her room many times, but they never gave (it to) her. Hers was the only room that did not have a key. The grandparents used to hear noises at 1am but they did nothing,” said the father. The parents said they were unhappy that the man was arrested on November 12 and later released. They expressed dissatisfaction over the investigations and the prosecutor. Joburg North Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences unit commander Captain William Chauke, who is also probing the case, said it was still under investigation. “We arrested the suspect because we believe we have a prima facie case. The matter was sent to the prosecutor to place on the court roll but the prosecutor felt that we don’t have enough to proceed. She would want to consult with the victim,” Chauke said. He said they were waiting for the matric learner to finish her exams, then arrangements would be made for her and her mother to meet the prosecutor. Chauke said it was always a challenge to get statements from family members when they made allegations against one another. “Some witnesses gave statements but they were ‘I haven’t seen anything, I haven’t heard anything’, but as we proceed taking other people’s statements they are implicated. We must go back and re-interview them. “The only thing outstanding in the investigations is the statement and assessment of the victim, which is ongoing,” said Chauke. He said if anyone was found to have failed to report the matter to the police, they would be arrested as well. “The Sexual Offences Amendment Act makes it an offence if any adult person knew about a crime against the child but did not report it,” he said. National Prosecuting Authority Gauteng spokesperson Phindi Mjonondwane said the girl’s mother was informed that the prosecutor wanted to consult with the child. “There are aspects that needs to be clarified first. Only then will the prosecution decide on the matter,” said Mjonondwane.