Long Summer days are perfect for lazy dining and catching a theatre show. If this is what you like, there is no better place than Montecasino which has introduced the Dine-and-Show experience to ensure you have the best of both. For the opening of the Matilda The Musical,  Montecasino invited me to try out the experience. Before the show, a friend and I headed to La Rosa Mexican Grille and Tequileria we were met with a vibrant, Mexican themed environment and welcomed with the much-loved Mexican drink; margarita. We arrived at the restaurant at 16:30 to eat the prepared course before heading off to watch the show that started at 18:00. Believe me, that was not enough time. If you want to have a more relaxed experience, I would suggest you get to the restaurant earlier because the food is so great you need to savour it. La Rosa’s executive chef Herbert Pizer said the eatery prided itself in taking their customers on a food journey. For starters, Pizer gave us albondigas - Mexican meatballs - and tuna ceviche. The albondigas are a must-try and are some of the best I have tried. And what is the point of going to a Mexican place if you don’t try nachos? Pizer recommended that we try three flavours - lamb; chicken and calamari. I promise, you will not regret it. While still trying to enjoy the food, we ran out of time before we had dessert. I still regret we got there late and could not try the churros on offer. I was heartily disappointed. We then had to rush to The Teatro to watch the stage adaptation of the much-loved Roald Dahl classic. I entered the theatre expecting to see a similar production to the movie, with music of course, but I was in for a pleasant surprise when the curtain went up. Matilda The Musical was a mesmerising showcase that retained classic elements from the beloved book and movie but also added new and exciting twists that made watching it captivating. I soon found myself wanting to sing along and dance while also hilariously watching Matilda grapple with the hardship of living with brash, uncouth parents with an intense dislike for reading and navigating her way through school under the iron-clad rule of the cruel and hateful Miss Trunchbull. The audience can’t help but be drawn as Matilda exacts revenge on her parents for treating her poorly and how she uses her magic powers, which we see much less of than in the movie, to rid the school of the horrid and bullying headmistress. The story itself remained true to its origins and the choreography was on-point and thrilling to watch. While I loved the movie adaption, I must admit, I really enjoyed the musical, which is a definite must-see for Roald Dahl fans. I loved how, even for a stage production, they were able to make my favourite scene - where Bruce is made to eat the massive chocolate cake - come alive. All in all, the Dine-and-show experience was a pleasant experience, albeit with a bit of time constraint, and one I’d recommend to family and friends.