The hitmaker’s music career rocketed in 1996 with his S’Kumfete album, which included songs like Kum’nandi, and he went on to be one of the artists who shaped the kwaito genre. Upon receiving the award, he said the honour meant everything to him. It came, he said, at a time when he had decided to expand his work beyond music, and had dedicated his life to touching the lives of ordinary South Africans. He now works as a philanthropist through his organisation, Amaha, and attributes his success to other people who worked with him, such as Kenneth Nkosi and a wide range of musicians, all of whom contributed to this venture. “I have been helping the poorest of the poor by building houses, helping child-headed homes and donating wheelchairs, among other things. This need to help was birthed many years back when we attended shows and saw the needy come out and support us. The sacrifices they made put us somewhere, and now it is time to give back to those who have been there for us without wanting anything in return,” he said. But the music has not, and will never, stop for the legend as he continues to act as producer, working behind the scenes and mentoring those who came after him. “South Africa has really shown me love in the past years, because apart from the award itself, the industry’s youngsters, such as Cassper Nyovest and the late ProKid, have outwardly celebrated me and my work. They have given thanks to me while I am still alive, and we all know how rare that is in our country. But now, with this award, and the music that continues to keep my name alive, I have been appreciated while I can appreciate the efforts given back to me, and that is humbling,” he said. Doc Shebeleza did not share the award this year, unlike in past years when it was shared among a number of recipients. “I do acknowledge that my receiving the award does not make me any more special than anyone else, because anyone could have received it. Just the thought of knowing that there is a group of people who see the work I continue doing regardless of sales and hit songs, that makes the journey worth it,” he said. Other artists who received awards on the night were Busiswa for Best House Artist, the late Mandoza for Best Kwaito Song 1996-2000 (Nkalakatha) and legend Spikiri for best producer, among other winners.