Launched in Cape Town at Africa- Com, the continent’s largest telecommunications, media and technology event, the MTN solution allows the livestock farmer improved animal-management and health-screening through activity and movement-monitoring, and analysis. Farmers receive actionable insights and early warning information to make decisions that help them manage their livestock, better improving efficiency and reducing costs. Wanda Matandela, chief executive of MTN SA’s enterprise business unit, said by using the IoT, farmers have near real-time visibility of their livestock, which acts as a deterrent to stock theft. The solution would help farmers also track straying animals. “A similar wildlife tracking solution allows for the monitoring of our precious rhino populations in our game parks, giving rangers better tools to fight poaching,” Matandela said. Stock theft is one of South Africa’s most persistent crimes with about 400000 domestic animals, valued at more than R1billion reported stolen between 2006 and 2010, according to the SA Society for Animal Science. Worryingly, over 500 rhino have been poached since the beginning of 2018. Dean Yu, president of Huawei Southern Africa Carrier Business Group, said they had leading technology, ecosystem and expertise on IoT business. “We are working closely with local partners to help telcos quickly launch successful IoT businesses in China, Asia Pacific and Europe. We are ready to utilise our experience and understanding of Africa markets to working with telcos in Africa and to bring digitisation to every person, family and organisations on the continent,” Yu said. Ntuthuko Shezi, founder and chief executive of Livestock Wealth, is trialling the Connected Animal solution. He said the IoT innovation would help them build more trust in their business models with existing and prospecting investors. “With such solutions we can also expand the ecosystem of farmers to more areas and allow small-scale and communal farmers to be incorporated into our value chain in an efficient way,” Shezi said. Huawei and MTN have been working closely to solve a variety of social and business problems. They co-launched a Narrow-band (NB) IoT strategy to solve low power and wide area coverage problems in 2016. Last year, MTN and Huawei launched the connected car solution to promote safe driving and enable a usage-based insurance business model. Huawei has worked with China Telecom and Yinchuan Aotoso Information Technology on the NB IoT product, UCOWS, a vast improvement over traditional cow-monitoring systems. The IoT Forum hosted by Huawei at AfricaCom attracted industry leaders from IoT value chain players such as smart device, connectivity and platform providers, and vertical solution players.