The four-year-old girl's uncle Adriaan Swarts was the first witness to testify in the kidnapping, rape and murder trial of his relative Chelsea. “The only identification I made was her pink shoes because she was covered with a mat from her head to just below her knees,” Swarts told the court. His testimony came shortly after Chelsea pleaded not guilty to three charges of kidnapping, rape and murder. Emotions ran high as the charges were read out in court, with family and community members bursting into tears and leaving the courtroom, one after another. Others, including the girl's mother Samantha Talla, wept silently. Shaynice was found dead on September 27 last year, a few hours after she had disappeared from her home. “I went to church and heard the news (about Shaynice’s disappearance) when I came back from church about 8 pm. I dropped my Bible at home and helped with the search,” Adriaan said. The community was already out in the streets using cellphone torches to search for Shaynice. Adriaan said he and his two brothers and two other male persons followed a footpath to a koppie in Extention 4, Eldorado Park. “In the veld, there were already people searching which changed our direction to the koppie. One of the footpaths led me to the open drain where I found the child. “In the drain there were mats. There were rocks on top of the mats. I then saw her pink shoes. I then went to the family and told them I had found her,” he said. Adriaan told the court that police had refused to open a missing person's case, saying they should wait for a certain period of time before they could do so. Swarts said he last saw Shaynice alive on the morning of September 27. He said he never saw what state Shaynice was in because she had been covered in mats and after he had informed the family that he had found her, police would not allow them to remove her body from the drain. He said he only saw Chelsea after Shaynice's body was found but never confronted him. The case will continue on November 21 when Adriaan is expected to be cross-examined. The Star