Amanda Nair, the former managing director of Joburg’s waste management entity, who was found by Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane to have made a slew of irregular appointments and procurements, charged on Thursday that her lawyers were finalising court papers to challenge the “flawed” report. This week, Mkhwebane released a report into Pikitup, where she found, among other things: * That Nair ignored three forensic investigations, including a National Treasury probe, when she irregularly appointed and extended the contracts of two companies to do critical operations and maintenance work; * That Nair made nine irregular appointments at senior managerial level, including hiring people who had submitted their CVs after the closing date for the applications, as well as flouting Pikitup processes to employ her domestic worker’s son; and * That Nair improperly appointed an independent contractor, “without following supply chain management processes and in contravention of the Municipal Financial Management Act”. Mayor Herman Mashaba also weighed in on the matter, labelling Nair’s tenure at Pikitup as an “abuse of power”. “What is evident from the report is that Amanda Nair was able to run Pikitup like a personal fiefdom. The extent of the rot in Pikitup was pervasive, and it was public knowledge at the time,” Mashaba contended. But Nair slammed the mayor, calling his views “nonsense”. “It is cheap politicking, that’s what it is and taking shots at the ANC,” Nair said. She rebuked Mkhwebane’s findings, saying that the “legislative and governance framework that enables the managing director to take certain decisions has not been properly understood by the public protector”. “I’m going to challenge this report. Whatever process I have to go through and however much it costs me, I will challenge this until I am vindicated,” Nair said. Omogolo Taunyane, spokesperson for the Joburg mayor, said because the city had only received the report yesterday, it needed time to deliberate and bounce ideas around regarding the methods of account.