A judgement has rapped the Limpopo Education Department on the knuckles for dragging its feet on appointing principals for three primary schools. In the judgment delivered at the Limpopo High Court this week, acting Judge MI Mangena set aside the department’s arbitrary decision not to appoint principals from the candidates recommended by the school governing bodies (SGB). Supported by the Polokwane-based Saviour Association of School Governing Bodies, the schools dragged the department to court to compel it to appoint principals. Their application was heard with Bonega Madikubung Primary School as the only applicant because the schools experienced a common problem. Kesarona and Lekhureng were the other two.  The South African Schools Act empowers SGBs to conduct interviews for posts in schools and recommend suitable candidates. Mangena heard that after the SGBs informed the department of their recommended candidates following interviews last year, head of department Ndiambani Beauty Mutheiwana declined to appoint them.  The department told court the SGBs failed to follow procedure. It said the bodies did not provide it with the criteria they used to determine suitable candidates. But Mangena shot down this argument, saying: “The criteria for determination of suitability of candidates is the prerogative of the panel.” In fact, said Mangena, records that the schools submitted to the department after interviews clearly indicated the criteria followed. The records showed that those without the necessary experience and qualifications were eliminated. Mangena lambasted Mutheiwana for ignoring several letters from schools querying why principals were not being appointed.  “The letters drew no response from the head of department who apparently went about with her business, unconcerned about the welfare of the learners at these schools,” he said. “I cannot understand why it had to take the department six months to take steps aimed at resolving a dispute on the appointment of a principal (this) is a core function of any government that takes the education of its children seriously. “It is a clear dereliction of duty and an abdication of a national responsibility,” Mangena said. The Star