Thousands of police officers earn a meagre R14633 per month. The South African Police Union (Sapu) yesterday confirmed to The Star that an entry-level officer in the rank of constable earns only R175596 a year, which translates to R14633 a month before tax, union fees, Unemployment Insurance Fund (UIF) and medical aid deductions, among other things. A police constable, who spoke to The Star on condition of anonymity, said after all the deductions from his salary, he earned a little more than R8000. “I pay more than R3000 in tax. That is killing me. We are on the streets chasing criminals and put our lives in danger but we have nothing to show for it,” said the 28-year-old officer, who started his job in January. “I have not always wanted to be a police officer. I saw an advert and applied and was accepted. I went for training and, while there, I fell in love with the job. I love being an officer, but we are poorly paid,” he said. The man lives with his grandmother and her four grandchildren. “I recently bought a car and pay R5600 in instalments and insurance. I give my grandmother money for food, but it’s a struggle to get through the month. I’m not even excited about payday because I earn cents,” he added. He said the poor payment of cops was contributing to their involvement in crime, including taking bribes or colluding with criminals. He said it also added to stress levels. The advert indicates that sergeants will get R222189 annually, while warrant officers stand to earn R278631. Police Minister Bheki Cele’s spokesperson, Reneilwe Serero, referred The Star to national police spokesperson Brigadier Vish Naidoo, who had not responded to questions by late yesterday. South African Policing Union president Mpho Kwinika agreed with the constable. “Entry-level officers are the most important in the force. When they are well-paid, they are happy and will do their job better,” Kwinika said. “Officers who join the force get a 3% salary progression every year. After 11 years, they qualify for promotions. “There are currently 68000 officers waiting to be promoted, but that is not happening because the Ministry of Police has indicated that it has budget constraints,” he said. “Earlier this year, the minister said there would be promotions of 23000 officers. If it does not happen, it will mean there are 91000 officers waiting for promotions in the force.” Kwinika said management should re-think salaries and pay officers better. According to Kwinika, there are 195000 police officers in the country. Of these, 157000 are on the ground, while the rest do office work. @smashaba