The person in question goes by the name of "Ernest Sibusiso Khoza". He allegedly “wormed” his way into the family by claiming to be a child of the late brother of one of the two deceased women. Gauteng MEC for Community Safety Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane, who was there to offer her support and comfort, broke down in tears instead. Tebogo Lekotje, who lost his 13-year-old daughter Karabo, was in an agonised state after re-visiting the room where his daughter's body was found, alongside three relatives on Monday. He told journalists that her eyes were bulging out of her lifeless body and it was clear that she had struggled before her death. Lekotje was later rushed to hospital because of his emotional state. Upon The Star’s arrival at the scene, the stench of the bodies that had been buried in heaps of sand, still permeated the air. “Not even an animal should be killed the way these seven people were killed. We suspect they were killed on October 19 because that was the day the man, who was staying with one of the ladies, disappeared,” said Nkosi-Malobane. He then returned on Tuesday and is being held for questioning after claiming that he had not smelt anything after staying with the bodies for days. An investigation has revealed that the family were killed by sharp objects, but Nkosi-Malobane said she could not reveal further details as this could hinder the case. “We will be helping the family and we have started with medical attention, and will be assisting with the burial. The cousins are the only ones left. "We need to thank the community of Vlakfontein because if they did not act, we would not have found the bodies. Although late, we did find them,” she said. According to her, the police have deployed a strong team to find and prosecute the accused and they are certain this will happen. “We are currently looking for him (Khoza) and we are confident that we, as the law enforcement agencies, will be arresting him soon. "We believe that he is a foreign national with multiple identities but that will not stop us. “The case is being handled by our priority investigating unit. We are confident that whoever is responsible will be arrested. One person who stayed in the back room is still missing,” she added.