Several city of Joburg departments have been conducting on-and-off strikes over the past few weeks over salary parity. Hardest hit has been the revenue department, which affects all residents directly because of billing issues, which, if not resolved or logged, could result in their services being terminated. Because of the new valuations and increases which came into effect in July, property owners started finding that their properties, especially sectional title units, had mostly been rezoned to businesses, greatly increasing their monthly bills. There are also people still waiting for their objections to be heard as well as their pension applications. But, in the meantime, the city is issuing termination notices that property owners cannot challenge because they can't get reference numbers. Even before the strike action, call centres and people’s centres were also refusing to tackle prescription of debt account queries, closed accounts or any complaints about meter readings. The Johannesburg and Gauteng attorneys’ associations said they had held a successful meeting with the city before the strikes, where promises were made by the city to resolve these issues. “Members of the public are being denied the right to raise a dispute with the municipality in relation to problems that they have with their accounts. This is a violation of their rights in terms of the Consumer Protection Act, Promotion of Administration of Justice Act, the constitution and potentially even the National Credit Act, not to mention a violation of the provisions of the city’s own by-laws and policies that allow customers to raise disputes/queries,” said attorney Louis Kruger. The City of Joburg confirmed that there are service interruptions at its call centre and the Thuso House customer service centre in Braamfontein. This was to do with salary parity, said city manager Ndivhoniswani Lukhwareni. A dispute was raised by employees in the city’s revenue shared service centre and property unit, and was being given immediate and urgent attention. However, there were other strikes, and the city promised feedback by tomorrow. “The disparity in salaries means people would often be doing the same job and getting different salaries. The SA Local Government Bargaining Council made us change our systems, which resulted in entry levels of some positions being downgraded. This resulted in some employees who perform the same position being remunerated at lower levels. “The city also experienced an integration of employees from different departments and business entities which were paid different salaries that were graded through various job grading systems. “And once those employees were integrated into single operational environments, this resulted in different employees who perform the same job being remunerated differently,” said Lukhwareni. Employees took the matter to the Labour Court and the CCMA, and won. However, the implementation of this agreement had challenges in the following areas said the city manager: The city will now consider reverting to the old manager salary scales. With regard to the unintended consequences of legacy salaries, the city will consider subjecting all post classifications into further evaluation and assessment, and developing agreements which will supersede all previous agreements. Lukhwareni said all employees had been told to resume their operations with immediate effect, adding that failure to comply could delay and undermine any successful implementation of these processes and future relations. The Star