People suffering from mental illness are already stigmatised and Nicholas Ninow's mental health defense in his rape case will further entrench perceptions that such individuals are capricious and dangerous. That will in turn impact on their ability to access employment and basic services as well as affect their relationships. This was the opinion of Nicole Breen who is the Project Leader: Information and Awareness at the SA Federation for Mental Health over Ninow's mental health defence. Ninow allegedly raped a 7-year-old girl in the bathroom of Dros Restaurant in Silverton, last month. However, the Pretoria Magistrate' Court heard on Thursday that he has mental issues and has previously attempted suicide several times due to depression caused by bipolar disorder. The court has since ordered that he be taken to Weskoppies Psychiatric Hospital in Pretoria for mental observation. His lawyer, Riaan du Plessis, also requested three clinical psychologists be appointed to assess him, instead of the usual two. Breen said there is a societal perception that people with mental health problems have a greater propensity for committing offences. While it has been documented that people with mental health problems do at times commit unlawful acts, this is outweighed by data that illustrates that such individuals are more likely, in fact, to be victims of crime, she said.      She also said it had been found that the majority of crimes were committed by people who do not have a mental illness. In fact, she said, evidence from suicide rates was proof that people with mental illnesses are more of a danger to themselves than to others.      "While it may be possible that this individual may have committed as an unusual consequence of a mental illness, there is no justification for indicating that mental illness specifically makes people in dangerous capricious and dangerous," Breen said.      Many people on social media were enraged at the fact that Ninow was instead being given a mental evaluation. Some said he was further adding to the stigma that already exists when it comes to mental health challenges and the perceptions that those battling with mental health were violent. The Star