Questions are being asked as to what could have triggered a violent attack in which a Limpopo female teacher was kidnapped and gang-raped, allegedly by two men who used to attend the same school where she taught. So disturbed the Limpopo Department of Education is by this that is has offered counselling to the woman's colleagues. The men believed to be aged 18 and 31-years-old, are alleged to have broken into the home of the 28-year-old woman last week Friday. The woman is a teacher near Marken on the outskirts of Lephalale. She was asleep when she was attacked, tied up with a rope before being bundled into the boot of her VW Polo. Limpopo provincial police spokesperson Colonel Moatshe Ngoepe said this was a sensitive case. “Both of suspects attended the same high school. We are dealing with the offences of rape, robbery, kidnapping and theft of a motor vehicle,” he said. Limpopo department of education spokesperson, Sam Makondo, said they were disturbed by what had happened to their colleague. He said the teacher who is now out of hospital, was receiving counselling. He said the 18-year-old is the teacher's former pupils. The 31-year-old, he said, attended the school many years ago. “When something like this happens, you feel concerned. We don’t know what might have triggered this, but we are working closely with the police. She and other teachers are getting counselling,” he said. Makondo couldn't confirm as to whether there was ever an incident before between the teacher and the 18-year-old at the time that he was still in school. The two suspects are set to appear at the Lephalale Magistrate Court next week and Makondo said the entire school staff would be attending the court case. “Obviously we are concerned about the safety of our teachers whether they are inside or outside the school. We condemn this.  We are interested in the case and we will be out in numbers to support our colleague,” he said. The teacher was found dumped on the side of a road outside Mokopane on Saturday and she was immediately taken to hospital for medical treatment. Ngoepe said the investigations were ongoing.