They dated for eight months and had to get a court order to get married in 1958 because Joan was only 19. At the time, a woman under 21 had to get her parents’ consent to get married. Johnny was 25. Joan’s parents were divorced and her mother refused to give consent. Her father made an urgent application to court and the Rand Supreme Court ruled that the two love birds could get married. And it has been wedded bliss since then. On the day of the ruling on December 11, 1958, their court victory was covered on the front page of The Star in what is their only wedding picture. The couple are next month celebrating their 60th anniversary and have never been happier. Joan, 79, said they got married because Johnny, 85, wanted to go on holiday with her family. “We always camped at Scottburgh and Johnny wanted to join us. My father said ‘fine, if you want to come along on holiday you have to get married because I am not taking a boyfriend along’,” she recalled. “All I wanted was a holiday and now look what I’m stuck with,” Johnny laughed. The couple met at a house party through Johnny’s cousin, who went to school with Joan. The De Bruyns didn’t have a big wedding and instead Joan’s father bought them a piece of land on which to build a house. They have three children and seven grandchildren. On what is the best part of being married, Johnny said: “It is the food, the companionship and the fighting, because it is nice to make up afterwards. I love knowing she is always there and that I am always there for her. We were lucky to be at the right place at the right time. And it worked.” For Joan, it is having someone dependable to raise a family with. “We were just lucky. We have seven grandchildren and that makes us happy. We have a happy, normal life. We are lucky we never had very big upsets. The most important thing in a relationship is that everybody must pull their weight. He was a very good father and I could trust him.” On advice to give to people who want to get married, Joan said: “Divorce is big problems, so that should not happen. When you get married, you mustn’t think ‘if it doesn’t work out we will leave each other’. Just make it work. “When you get married you must know you are marrying his family and he is marrying yours, but they must also not interfere. “What I could never understand is why people say they are working on their marriage. It’s a very natural thing. Once you two are married and have had sex and you live together and have children, then basically you belong to each other.” For Johnny, it is even easier. “Decide you want to live with each other and look after each other.” Joan admits it wasn’t always smooth sailing. “Sometimes I wanted to kill him,” she laughs. “And other times she never got enough of me,” Johnny quips. For their anniversary, the two are having a small party with their children and grandchildren next month.