Johannesburg - A 7-year-old pupil has become the second witness to reveal her school's alleged complicity in concealing alleged child sexual abuse at a Soweto primary school. The alleged sexual abuse victim testified that a 58-year-old man, Johannes Molefe, had inappropriately touched her and when she reported the matter to her teacher, she did nothing. He also told the court that the school's principal told the girls who had said Molefe had sexually abused them not to report the incidents to their parents. This correlates with what a 9-year-old girl testified to on Wednesday, saying that, after Molefe had allegedly penetrated her with his finger, she was told not to report this to her mother by the principal. Testifying on Thursday at the South Gauteng High Court sitting in the Palm Ridge Magistrate's Court, the child - who is currently in Grade 2 -testified that Molefe had put his hands up her school dress and touched her vagina as well as her buttocks last year when she was in Grade 1. Molefe, who was working at the school as a patroller at the time of the alleged incidents, has pleaded not guilty to all 14 charges he faces, which include three counts of rape and 11 of sexual assault. The girl, who was testifying through a court-appointed intermediary in order to prevent "undue stress should she testify in open court", said she had reported Molefe to her teacher immediately after the accused had allegedly touched her privates and her bum. However, the teacher allegedly did nothing. "She (teacher) said he (Molefe) should stop what he was doing. The teacher was speaking to me. I went to Mkhulu (Molefe) and told him: 'My teacher said you must stop what you're doing.' "Mkhulu responded by saying, 'Okay'," the girl said. Asked by Judge Peet Johnson whether the teacher had gone to speak to Molefe, the girl said, "no". Defence Advocate Lumka Qoqo asserted that the witnesses were not telling the truth and that Molefe would deny ever having abused the 13 girls who are complainants in this case. The trial continues. The Star