Associate professor Megan Becker, of UCT’s Centre for Minerals and Research in the Department of Chemical Engineering, is the only academic named among chief executives, directors and vice-presidents of global companies in the Top 100 Global Inspirational Women in Mining 2018 publication. Becker is one of the South African women lauded on the prestigious list. Some of th e other local women who made it on to the list include: Lindiwe Nakedi, owner and director of Gubhani Exploration and chairperson of WiMSA; Makhosazana Sibisi, the chief executive of WaterBearer Sustainable Development; Deshnee Naidoo, chief executive of Vedanta Zinc International and Farana Boodhram, the chief executive of Avita Mining. Becker said she was humbled by the recognition. “I will endeavour to continue being an inspiration, especially to our students as they embark on their own careers in the mining industry.” More than 600 nominations were received from around the world this year, representing different facets of the mining industry, but all highlighting the contribution women are making daily. Becker’s citation says she is passionate about minerals, teaching and applying her intellectual curiosity to the industry she loves. Becker named the late Emeritus Professor Dee Bradshaw among her colleagues and students she thanked for being part of her career. The publication contains a tribute to Bradshaw, who died in June. It says that with her death, the global mining processing community lost a teacher, a leader and a friend. Women In Mining chairperson Carole Cable called the book “a living history of women working in mining”. “Through their stories, we learn how they have addressed challenges, empowered others and forged rewarding and important careers in the sector,” she said. The 100 women featured were selected by a panel of judges in recognition of their perseverance in the face of adversity, their ability to find solutions to the challenged they faced, and for how they have served to empower others by being a voice and a role model for diversity and inclusion.