The SABC is like "a brothel which is run by prostitutes". These were the strong words of Barbara Watson, who revealed shocking and widespread details of sexual harassment at the public broadcaster. They were  contained in a comprehensive forensic report which revealed a slew of heinous behaviour on the broadcaster's women staff members. On Tuesday at the SABC's Joburg headquarters, Watson -- who chaired the broadcaster's commission inquiry into these crude allegations which was established  in June -- revealed that 10 complainants had come forward to give harrowing accounts of the alleged abuse. More than 40 people spoke to the commission, among whom were whistleblowers who came forward with information on the sexual harassment they allegedly perceived at the broadcaster. Lotus FM, which is based in KwaZulu-Natal and primarily services that province's Indian population, was flagged as the worst among the SABC's departments in terms of sexually abusing women. Mfanozelwe Shozi, who was part of the commission, said Lotus FM had always had a male and Indian station manager, where there was "a rife patriarchal and sexist culture", and Indian men treated the station as "their own fiefdoms". There was also a harrowing account of a female employee who allegedly suffered repeated abuse until her and her husband, who also worked at the SABC in the human resources department, had to resign due to what Watson called the repeated abuse the woman suffered. Watson added that the couple had since divorced due to the strain they took from the alleged abuse. Watson said the commission had no subpoena powers, but wrote to the alleged perpetrators to offer them a right of reply. All but two perpetrators came forward to present their side of the story, where the others all denied allegations against them. The chairperson added that those that didn't come exuded a level of arrogance due to the systemic collusion between alleged abusers and the HR department in quashing all complaints at the broadcaster. "The problem with predators is that they are cunning, shrewd and know how to work the system," Watson said. The inquiry was established by the SABC's board following a dossier which was presented this year alleging widespread abuse in the TV side of the broadcaster. Shozi said that although complaints had initially emanated from TV, radio was fingered as the worst department in terms of sexual harassment. Recommendations are that the SABC should institute a structure outside HR to oversee the implementation of the commission's report, including disciplining the alleged abusers, most of whom were senior managers and those in positions of power, and a review of the broadcaster's internal policies dealing with sexual harassment and assaults. None of the managers who were fingered in the abuse were ever suspended after complaints were made against them, nor were the contents of investigations shared with complainants, Watson said. SABC chief executive Madoda Mxakwe said the organisation had received instructions from its board to implement the recommendations, and these would begin immediately.  @khayakoko88