Never in my life had I ever imagined a situation where I would be “fighting” with my wife and three-year-old daughter over a console. Nintendo Switch, which is the seventh major video game developed by Nintendo got us glued to Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, a race game. I remember a few moments where Mpilo would interrupt her mom and ask to play. The look that my wife gave her was: “But you just played,” before eventually giving her the console. Minutes would pass with Mpilo playing the game, not giving us a chance. As a father, I would intervene with a smile and say “my little princess, sharing is caring, please allow mom and dad to play”. There were times where she would take Nintendo Switch and go to the next room, so that we don’t disturb her. This shows that effect that the console had on my little one. What I like most about the Nintendo Switch is that it offers three options: TV mode, tabletop mode and the handheld mode. To be honest, I prefer the handheld mode, because it is portable and easy to carry around. I thought I was always busy and never had time to play games, until I found the Nintendo Switch on my fingertips non-stop. Without a shadow of doubt, the Nintendo Switch is the best console to have and buy. The Nintendo Switch, which was officially launched globally early this year is able to bring out the youngster in you. It makes one cheerful and reduces stress. I think those who work in the creative departments where they are expected to come up with strategies should invest in Nintendo Switch and play games when they struggle to come up with brilliant ideas for the campaign that they are busy with. The lady who handed me the console to review, gave me two games to play. The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, and Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. I didn’t play the first game, because I started with Mario Kart 8 Deluxe and I enjoyed it so much that I couldn’t change the game. Mario Kart 8 Deluxe offers colourful characters that one can choose to represent you on the kart race. The game is easy to get used to and winning requires racing skills and focus. I have never seen my daughter so focused while playing a game. She would make a noise when she gets overtaken. I remember hearing her asking: “How can I be number 12?” Hahaha Mpilo, pull up your socks. LOL! The soundtrack during the race makes it more interesting. I felt like I was on a real race with loud music playing in my car. I was supposed to hand back the Nintendo Switch long time ago, but I couldn’t let go. @SthembisoMedia