The Basha Uhuru Festival kicked off its creative programme on Thursday with the Nando’s Hot Young Designer competition for fabric designers. The competition finalists’ designs are featured at the festival for the Creative Summit that continues today. Now in its sixth year, the festival will feature a line-up of local artists, designers and musicians celebrating the youth of 1976. Tomorrow, the three-day event wraps up with the Sounds of Freedom Concert, with the likes of Sho Madjozi, Black Motion and Skwatta Kamp bringing their cultural flair and fire to the Hill. Wacy Zacarias is one of the judges for the designers competition. The Mozambican-born designer is the founder of the brand Woogui and began her path in the fashion industry in 2008. In 2015, she established a partnership with fashion and textile designer Djamila de Sousa, and together they launched Karingana Wa Karingana, a surface and textile design brand. They were commissioned by Nando’s to create a bespoke range of fabric for their restaurants around the world. “I’ve always liked fashion, and after I started in textiles I was interested in finding alternatives and exploring different avenues. “That’s how it became a career path,” Zacarias said. She started designing women’s clothing and accessories, and in 2012 started in textiles.  “I met Djamila in 2014; she was working for a colleague of mine at the time and we were doing a project together. We started working together, because we had the same interests,” she said. Karingana Wa Karingana is Shangaan for once upon a time. “That’s how they would start the stories around the fire” according to Zacarias. The two are based in Maputo. For the design competition, the aim is to find something fresh from the talented designers, who think out of the box in their work. “The ones who were picked made use of visual representations and had real talent. “It was all the designers who gave us something different and what we were looking for,” she said. “There wouldn’t be any clothes without textiles. It’s what defines your clothing and something that people don’t usually think about. “Textiles touch your skin and people should know what chemicals are used, because this is the immediate layer that is in contact with your skin every time you wear a garment,” Zacarias added  She said as a designer, the finish of a garment is defined by the quality of the textile. “The textiles predetermine the end result. You can design good clothing, but if you don’t find the complementary textile, then it won’t have that beautiful finish that you imagined.” She has travelled to many places around the world including London, Berlin and New York. “Talented people are everywhere in the world, but the ones who stand out are people who are authentic,” she said. “There are a lot of people doing the same thing, but the authentic ones you see through the work they do. One is drawn to those people who unapologetically live their lives to the full through their craft.” Today, she will be sharing her expertise on fabrics and printing at the Basha Bacha Creative Summit and giving a workshop. “Textiles should be fun. It’s something that you could do in your kitchen or your living room with raw materials, which can lead to new things,” she said. @mane_mpi