The boys are doin’ it and it’s not just for Hollywood or for Jamaica. This time the boys are doin’ it for the world. A new rendition of the classic Hugh Masekela song- The Boys Doin’ It is in the works. His son Sal Masekela and local rock band BLK JKS have come together to produce a 2018 version of the song that was described as a mash up of genres. The single is the title of Masekela’s 17th studio album and was recorded in Lagos, Nigeria in 1975. “To me the song is an anthem about essentially going out into the world and doing all you can to live your best life, which is exactly what Hugh Masekela was doing in the 70’s all over the planet,” said Sal. He has always wanted to work with the BLK JKS because of their creative minds and body of work. “They represent the idea what we as black people are not a monolith. That we can extend our creativity outside a prescribed box with our blackness well in tact. Since we first met in 2010 during the World Cup they’ve always treated me as family when I come home to visit South Africa and we kick it often. On the back end of my father’s funeral we were spending time and simply trying to make sense of the new reality of my father no longer being here. They brought up the idea of doing a The Boys Doin It tribute. There was no hesitation. It just made sense and we went all in.” The tribute version was recorded in Johannesburg in February.  For BLK JKS, the song represents how Bra Hugh lived like a rock star. “There are a few songs or riffs more Rock and Roll than this one. Just like it’s original composer Bra Hugh, always the consummate rock star who lived at least nine lives in one. This is one of many black people, a black man, that the Apartheid heads would endeavor to disrespectfully call “boy”... wanting to belittle him, crush a nation, wanting him to fail as they did many a black child, yet this “boy” he went on to do it and do it big.” The group said Bra Hugh was like a “spiritual, musical, godfather of sorts” to them and always accessible. The band collaborated with Bra Hugh and chose toperfrom this song with him at the Rolling Stone SA Magazine launch back in 2011. “It’s that visceral, indomitability of the rebellious human spirit that subconsciously appealed to us in the song. The emotions we experienced while recording are hard to put into words. It was something quite surreal made very real indeed. It was akin to our last moment with uncle Hughie, before he made the big journey to join those watching over us.” Doing a cover to honour Bra Hugh is something they want to do to keep the older generations fires burning. “There are plenty of people or forces constantly trying to write us all out of history for their own nefarious purposes and  it’s up to us as African artist to always hold the torch up and keep it well lit.” Selema Masekela, an emcee and poet, is also featured on the song. Sal, said  it was a cathartic experience to record it. “It brought healing. It was a beautiful way to grieve together in a serious but joyful manner. There was a level of unspoken focus that I’ve never felt before. It felt like we were on a secret mission. My father’s spirit was in the room overseeing the entire operation.” He said he hoped that this track causes music fans, especially young people, to go deep into the rabbit hole of the timeless musical legacy of Hugh Masekela. “I’m sure that this is the first of many tributes to come from all around the world,” he said. @mane_mpi 