That is no different with the Sony Xperia XA2 Ultra, which boasts a bunch of other goodies but is solid when it comes to the functionality of its music player. If you own one of these babies, you’re guaranteed to have a good time listening to all your favourite tracks. My initial thought of the phone was that it was too big for my small hands and too smooth for a proper hand grip. But it comes with the option to reduce the screen size display and operate it from whichever thumb you are using to navigate. You literally downsize it to the mini-display with a quick swipe. The borderless glass 5.2inch screen does make you more cautious than usual so as to avoid a fall and a nightmarish cracked screen. It’s a sleek phone to look at but the size is problematic if you are not someone who is looking for something that is in the line of tablets and bigger sized phones. The resolution is good, but I have seen better offerings on the market for the screen size. The phone weighs 221g, a little on the heavy-side for my liking. Back to the music. Sony is a leader in this regard and the XA2 Ultra has all the essentials for diehards of the brand. From choosing a song, a playlist, shuffle and just browsing, the system does not throw you out of anything you are doing. The ClearAudio+ and Clear Bass makes sure you don’t miss a lyric of your favourite song. I can’t get enough of the music functionality on any Sony. My brother keeps a spare Sony phone purely because of the range the music display has, and the sound quality. My favourite thing to do on a phone is to take a selfie. When I’m not posing to find the perfect angle, I am trying to get all my friends into the frame as well.  The XA2 Ultra offers two selfie cameras - a 16MP camera for low light images and an 8MP camera for super wide group selfies. I jumped for joy when I found super wide selfie mode. With the 120° super wide-angle I could fit all my friends in the picture without any of us having to squeeze in. The main camera is 23MP but I still preferred the selfie camera more. Battery life is pretty good on this one, especially if you don’t open every app that is available. Technically, it works on Qnovo Adaptive Charging which checks your battery’s health as it charges, then adjusts current levels to help protect its capacity. Over time this prevents battery decline. ALSO READ: Gaming life with the Nintendo Switch There is also the Smart Stamina which predicts how long your power will last based on how you normally use your phone, and prompts you with the best time to activate Stamina mode. On the mode, you can adapt your energy usage to keep going even when you’re running low. Many of us also have that bad habit of leaving the phone on the charger all night long. To reduce this damage, the battery care on the Sony will charge it until 90% and then the last 10% just before you wake up. Space on the phone is 32GB  which is enough to save your favourite memories. We can appreciate the Google Android operating system as it’s much easier to move from one phone brand to the next without having to figure out what is going on on your menu screen. I can’t get over how big the phone is but wouldn’t mind having one on reserve for all my entertainment needs. It costs R5599 and comes in black, silver and gold. @mane_mpi