The ANC took the decision in the wake of a recent court decision that interdicted a provincial conference of the organisation's biggest province, KwaZulu-Natal. On Monday, a group of ANC members from the West Rand, including several members of the regional executive committee (REC), staged a picket outside the ANC’s special national executive committee meeting in Irene, Tshwane, urging it to intervene. The ANC's special meeting was aimed at dealing with challenges of unity within the party, which have seen the party's disputed conferences being interdicted and taken to court for nullification across its structures throughout the country. REC member William Matsheke said they had lost confidence in the provincial executive committee (PEC) under acting provincial chairperson and Premier David Makhura and provincial secretary Hope Papo, who he accused of allowing the flouting of internal processes, including fraudulent rigging of data sent to branches, and the holding of branch meetings at people's homes. Matsheke said all questionable branch meetings had to be rerun by the national executive committee (NEC) as the PEC and REC were conflicted, adding that a court challenge would take place against both the regional and provincial conferences if this wasn't done. “As per the constitution of the ANC and as per the guidelines, we followed all the necessary procedures. If they will fail this, we will be left with no other options but to go to court. It is bad when the ANC leaders do not follow guidelines of the ANC. Going to court is not bad because we have no other option,” Matsheke said. ANC national organiser Senzo Mchunu - who received the petition from the disgruntled members - said the conferences would not be allowed until the grievances were addressed. “There is no other interest that you have other than making sure that all processes of the organisation in all provinces and regions must be fair and just. These will be attended to,” Mchunu said. ANC provincial spokesperson Motalatale Modiba said the provincial leadership would not comment on the matter, as the memorandum had been escalated to the party's national top brass. “The memorandum will be cascaded down to the province. Only then will we be able to comment. But there has been an interaction with secretary-
general Ace Magashule about the matter as we have been updating him about the progress,” Modiba said. Speaking on the sidelines of the NEC meeting, Magashule said the ANC would soon take a decision to block its members from dragging it to court when they were disgruntled. This comes as another disgruntled ANC grouping approached the South Gauteng High Court in a bid to force the party to disband the Eastern Cape provincial executive committee under Oscar Mabuyane, which was elected at last year's chaotic provincial conference. A report by former transport minister Sbu Ndebele's  panel, which probed the violence that happened at the Eastern Cape conference, recommended the dissolution of the PEC. Magashule said the ANC was deliberately exercising patience on those who continued to take it and its decisions to court, adding that the party would soon draw a line against the tendency. “We are at the stage where we are going to say to members who have exhausted processes and decide to go to court that it stops here. "The ANC will deal with these matters, but we are allowing people, we are educating them politically. We have patience and we have time, and that is what the ANC is all about. There will finally be a decision that says it stops here,” Magashule said. At its national conference at Nasrec last year, the governing party resolved that its members must desist from approaching the courts without exhausting internal platforms which were meant to handle disputes. One of the Eastern Cape litigants, Mawande Ndakisa, told Independent Media that the grouping were not afraid of being punished by the NEC for going to court as it had failed to address their grievances. “They must just implement the Ndebele report because they pleaded with the high court that it must not give us relief when we applied for the nullification of that conference, saying they were still addressing the matter through the Ndebele panel. Why are they not implementing that now? “We are not scared of being expelled. We must not be threatened with expulsion by the NEC just because they do not want to do their job properly. They have no other choice but to implement that report in full and disband that conference,” Ndakisa said.