The 10-day event showcases 10 different award-winning films from across Europe. This is the fifth such event in South Africa. “It's fascinating how European filmmaking both reflects but also conditions the times we live in and the selection that you see during this festival is the best on offer from the world's most talented artists," the Deputy British High Commissioner, Ben Llewellyn-Jones, said on Thursday. "Each piece is outstanding in its own way but taken together you can see work that gives multiple perspectives on the challenges faced as citizens of Europe in 2018 with all the contestation and perhaps celebration that entails.” He said a selection of the films will be shown at the National Arts Festival in Grahamstown for the first time this year. “That will help the best of European filmmaking reach valuable new audiences whilst enriching one of South Africa's leading arts programmes.” One of the festival's curators, Lesedi Oluko Moche, said she decided to participate because she spent her childhood and early adult years travelling four different continents. “The diversity of being was and continues to be something that is very important to me. The idea that we can tell who is from where, based on what we see, is one that we need to renegotiate within ourselves and within our nations. "A recurring question over the past weeks has been why the European Film Festival?" she said. "We all need to take stock of the world we live in. We share a history of immeasurable, political and cultural penetration across our borders and continents for many of us by force and for some of us by choice.” She said the answer to the question: Why a European festival in Africa, was simple. “There is no Europe without Africa, as many countries were built on the resources of Africa. Equally there is no Africa without Europe as many of our countries are legislatively governed by the languages and cultures of diverse European sensibilities. We are bound by histories that are not of our choosing. It is for this reason that we chose to open with an African made film by a young black female director that represents a European country in this festival.” The film, I Am Not A Witch, won a BAFTA award and was made by a Welsh director of Zambian descent, Rungano Nyoni. It was shot in the Zambian Bemba language and funded by the UK, Germany, France, Switzerland and The Netherlands. The film follows nine-year-old Shula, who is banished to a camp after being accused of being a witch. The story tackles superstition and sexism. Nyoni uses humour to tell the story of existing witch camps and shine a spotlight on the absurdity of outdated traditions. In addition to Nyoni's film, the festival is showcasing films from Austria, Denmark, France, Germany, Belgium, The Netherlands, Poland, Spain, Sweden and the UK. “Programmed in this festival are films told through the multiple, political, economic and social textures of what a Europe past and present looks like.” Oluko Moche said the curating followed three specific themes - women filmmakers; five out of the 10 in the programme, first time and emerging filmmakers; four out of the 10 and an intergenerational conversation between filmmakers on what Europe was and what it is today. “Though each film can stand on its own, they do live together and explore themes that cover immigration, love, loss and most  importantly the need to belong and to feel safe whatever your circumstance where ever you are in the world,”  Oluko Moche said. The festival is coordinated by the British Council SA and runs until July 1 at Ster Kinekor Cinema Nouveau in Rosebank, Brooklyn Pretoria and the Cape Town V&A Waterfront. @mane_mpi