The Gauteng government is hosting its fourth instalment of their Youth, Jobs, Careers and Entrepreneurship Opportunities Expo, which runs until June 17 at the Nasrec Expo Centre. On Monday, veteran actor Jerry Mofokeng wa Makhetha and Dr Wally Mongane Serote brought an exclusive showcase called Shades of Change. The stage production, featuring local actresses, Lerato Mvelase and Puleng Molebatsi, is set in a prison against the backdrop of the June 16, 1976 uprisings. It was first performed in Botswana in 1977, then in Amsterdam in 1982. Serote penned a theatrical journey that places a mirror before today’s youth whose dreams can be realised under the enabling democratic era. He said the play was dedicated to Struggle icon Steve Biko whom he had a close relationship with. “At that time, I was in exile in Botswana and I was in a taxi. I heard that the system had killed Steve Biko in prison. I had to investigate everything about what happened," he said. The Gauteng government is hosting its fourth instalment of their Youth, Jobs, Careers and Entrepreneurship Opportunities Expo, which runs until June 17 at the Nasrec Expo Centre. On Monday, veteran actor Jerry Mofokeng wa Makhetha and Dr Wally Mongane Serote brought an exclusive showcase called Shades of Change. The stage production, featuring local actresses, Lerato Mvelase and Puleng Molebatsi, is set in a prison against the backdrop of the June 16, 1976 uprisings. It was first performed in Botswana in 1977, then in Amsterdam in 1982. Serote penned a theatrical journey that places a mirror before today’s youth whose dreams can be realised under the enabling democratic era. He said the play was dedicated to Struggle icon Steve Biko whom he had a close relationship with. “At that time, I was in exile in Botswana and I was in a taxi. I heard that the system had killed Steve Biko in prison. I had to investigate everything about what happened," he said. PASSION: Puleng Molebatsi performs in the play Shades of Change. Picture: Bhekikhaya Mabaso/ANA “I knew Steve Biko personally, very well, I worked with him. “I had already been in detention and I was afraid for him. The story is dedicated to him,” said Serote. He added the play was appropriate and relevant during this youth month and was meant to inspire and educate young people. “We must find a way to bring the history of this country to the young people. To say this is where things started, how they developed and where we are now. We also need to find a way to inspire them and look to the future. It perhaps opens their eyes to the price that was paid by ordinary students for freedom,” he said. Mofokeng wa Makhetha known for his role in the films Cry, the Beloved Country, Tsotsi and Mama Jack said as a director he did not want to explain the play but hoped young people came in their numbers to watch it. STOIC: Lerato Mvelase looks on at the audience while performing in the play Shades of Change. Picture: Bhekikhaya Mabaso/ANA  “Opening day is always opening day. You see things that you never had planned for and then moments change. It’s very difficult for a director, it’s a difficult performance but I am glad that a young girl (learner) made my day. For her to say that it gives her hope, inspired me. It said they understood,” he said. In a brief message to the youth of today, Mofokeng wa Makhetha said he understood what the youth during apartheid were fighting for and that the youth should do their part. “June 16 1976, I was writing an Afrikaans exam. I fully understood what we were fighting for. It was education designed for slavery for us to be assistance to white people all the time for the rest our lives,” he said. “We have done our part, they don't have to die for education but there are things they must say no to today and nobody can say that for them. I really pray and hope they wake in good time and say no to nonsense and say yes to quality education and life,” said Mofokeng wa Makhetha. The live theatre performance of Shades of Change will be showcased on Thursday (June 14) and Friday (June 15) at the expo. The week long expo to celebrate the youth has multi-event exhibitions, dialogues, workshops, cinema and sports activities. @Zwane_2li2ls 