In a Facebook post by Zero13 Lifestyle club, management in Mbombela decided to set the record straight and stop the various versions around the astounding tab, mostly incurred through the purchase of expensive alcohol by a group of young women. “Zero13 would like to formally address the rumours going around on social media about the bill. The stories are completely untrue and fabricated. “The bill was paid and there were no issues as implied. We would like to ask people to refrain from reposting or posting these stories as they are unfounded and far from true. Zero13 would like to formally apologise for any misunderstanding arising from this incident,” reads the club’s Facebook post. Attempts to get hold of the club owner were unsuccessful, but a staff member, who asked not to be named, confirmed that the bill was R37340 and that it had been paid. The Twitter and social media storm arose when a video showing a group of young women appearing stranded with the astronomical bill after their benefactor allegedly bolted without paying. In the video seen by The Star, the women are seen having expensive drinks that included Veuve Rich champagne, which cost R1800; and a bottle of 18-year-old Glenfiddich whisky, bought for R3200, while loud music is playing in the background. The women’s table was littered with an array of other beverages, including Hennessy cognac, Ice Tropez and Red Square Reload. Wearing short skirts and tops that barely covered their breasts, the slay queens, as they are popularly referred to, looked despondent as the camera panned between them and the bill. According to some social media users, there is a growing trend in the club scene of young women who go out expecting “blessers” to pay for their expensive lifestyles. Twitter users showed no sympathy for the young women, who clearly could not afford to pay the hefty bill. @danielmarven tweeted: “That’s leadership, ladies must learn to go clubbing with money in case this happens.” Facebook user Ntombi Hlatshwayo said the“blesser did the right thing. “The man served them right, bayaphapha (they are crazy) ordering utshwala abangabazi (alcohol they do not know). GIVE THAT MEN A BELLS,” she wrote on Facebook. Author Jackie Phamotse also shared the video of the slay queens  and tweeted: “Ladies!!!!!!! Hleng!!!! These girls went out thinking they will be sorted by their blesser, however, he left them stranded with a R37K plus bill!!!!! Ladies No No No! We can’t live like this!” The club does not say who came to the rescue of the bewildered lasses, but a separate video yesterday shows two young men with a wad of R200 notes purportedly settling the shocking bill, much to the relief of the slay queens.