Even though it has gone through two name changes, the one thing that remains the same is the quality of music and the artists that pass through every month. Founder of the event Jazzman Mahlakgane celebrated his birthday at the event on Friday and also presented honorary awards to the partners who have helped take the jazz evening to new heights.  Birchwood Hotel and OR Tambo Conference Centre’s marketing director Lloyd Marshall said Mahlakgane was the reason why the hotel had become such a successful venue. “When Birchwood was founded in 1998, the first three years were a real struggle. The founders couldn’t fill the hotel. There was one conference room. The hotel was running at a bad loss,” Marshall said. “Even after a loan from the bank, it still couldn’t get started. When Jazzman came on board to turn things around, Ekurhuleni, the East Comes Alive as it was then called, began in a much smaller venue.” Marshall said over the last 17 years the jazz evening had brought a massive change at Birchwood.  “The most important change being a change in fortune and from then on it was ‘the sky’s the limit’ from there. Everything you see on these 55 acres of land can largely be attributed to this event. It really did put Birchwood on the map.” He added that Mahlakgane creating an event that brings people to Birchwood has grown into a fantastic event and the hotel has grown to have 60 different conference venues and 665 hotel rooms. “And that is in no small way due to the efforts of Jazzman,” he said.  Mahlakgane was presented with an award and a special celebratory cake in honour of the 17 years of the jazz evening. “It’s a great honour to have everyone under one roof. Having 800 people celebrate jazz is no joke. I’ve been doing this for too long, I think I know every artist, young and old, and some of the people that have made this event big are passing on, so as it gets sad, for me I celebrate the young ones coming up, I feel honoured that a young team at Birchwood will be taking over,” Mahlakgane said. To get the night going, Naledi Brown got the audience on their feet with her high energy dance moves. Simphiwe Shembe followed with a peculiar comedic set that had everyone filled with laughter. Resident MC Hector Motivator got the things in place on the night. The Afro Tenors deserved a standing ovation for their set as they told a story through their music. They collaborated with headline act Oliver Mtukudzi for a rendition of Pata Pata that they had not performed in years. Mtukudzi, who looked dapper in his black hat and shirt, challenged the young ones and danced through the performance. Elton Mduduzi’s funny set delivered more laughs as the audience prepared for Mtukudzi’s set. Closing the night with a bang was Mtukudzi, who had the audience taking in all his glory by singing along to all the favourites, including Todii, Wasakara and Neria. Birchwood Jazz evening is held in partnership with The Star. @mane_mpi