A fiery letter sent by attorney Vincent Ramaboya, who represents the directors of Mpumalanga-based Sumo Coal, to Mauritius Commercial Bank’s (MCB) South African office, accuses the bank of being complicit in the alleged defrauding of the coal company. The Star has been reporting on civil and criminal proceedings involving Abubekir Salim and Mehmet Selim Kaymak, who have been embroiled in a slew of corruption and fraud allegations. The allegations include the siphoning of millions of rand - believed to be in the region of R250million - to Mauritius after allegedly illegally gaining control of Sumo’s subsidiary, Root Mining; as well as accusations that Salim and Kaymak “fraudulently” removed Huseyin and Muhammed Caliskan as the directors of the company. Salim and Kaymak, both Turkish nationals, were arrested last month and are facing fraud and forgery charges. The directors of Sumo Coal are livid with MCB and have accused the bank of flouting its own regulatory frameworks, including the supposed opening up of a company account for a Yousuf Siraz Patel - whom the bank had apparently not even met. “The most appalling of 
MCB’s deeds is the opening of a bank account in South Africa, on South African soil, in the name of Mr Yousuf Siraz Patel whom you have never met,” an irate Ramaboya wrote in the letter, the contents of which The Star has seen. “You (MCB) allowed the account to operate for over a year, receiving tens of millions of dollars without the basic documents commonly known as KYC (know your customer), which are utilised worldwide. “Your failure to act with overwhelming evidence of forgery or at least take steps to comply with the provisions of the Financial Intelligence Centre (FIC) Act is disconcerting,” Ramaboya added. The act aims to, among others, combat money laundering activities and the financing of terrorist and related activities. Speaking to The Star, Ramaboya said his letter to MCB was a “comprehensive summation of facts”, which the bank has yet to respond to or indicate whether it would respond. “If you receive a letter like that, you need to respond to it because it makes strong allegations,” Ramaboya said. Gilles Martial, MCB spokesperson at the bank’s Port Louis, Mauritius, headquarters, said his “superiors” were informed of the damning allegations it is embroiled in at its South African office. “However, due to the legal implications surrounding this matter, MCB does not wish to comment at this stage,” Martial said. The Star also approached the South African Reserve Bank (Sarb) to find out if it was aware of the allegations, and whether the central bank had measures to curb illicit cross-border moneteary outflows. Denzel Bostander, head of Sarb’s financial conglomerate supervision, said: “The South African Reserve Bank as a supervisory body is mandated to ensure that registered banks and mutual banks comply with the provisions of the FIC Act. “The Mauritius Commercial Bank is not a registered bank or a mutual bank. The MCB has a representative office in South Africa.” Salim, who is also the president of MUSIAD SA - a forum of industrialists and businesspeople promoting trade between Turkey and South Africa - said these allegations were a deliberate attempt to 
not only tarnish their reputation, but to also undermine “the good ties” between the Turkish and South African governments. @khayakoko88