“It was in 1998 at the Community Builder of the Year awards, and it was our first performance on live TV,” Lucky Sibanda said. Together with Given Mabena and Agos Moahi, the singers pulled all the strings to make sure their performance would live up to their expectations. "We were scraping around looking for costumes, nice tuxedos and so on. From the word go we wanted it to be proper. Just before that performance, Agos kept looking at his watch and he would say 'guys, in 10 minutes we are going to be famous', up until it was time to get on stage.” They did not feel the pressure until the lift elevated them onto the stage where they were met with bright lights and a glaring audience at Gallagher Convention Centre. "After the performance, Mandela gave us a standing ovation with about 3500 people in the audience.” Backstage when they got the chance to meet him and shake his hand, he told them they should continue with their journey and he would make sure they were promoted and would do well. “And we kept on. It has been 20 years now.” Before travelling the world with their authentic African twist to opera, the lads would have corridor talks about forming a group in 1997. “Agos had already graduated and Given and I met him at one of the productions he was in at a time when we weren't allowed to go and do productions at theatres because we were still students, but we went ahead anyway because we wanted to hustle and make money,” Sibanda said. MORE MUSIC: Ringo rises to the occasion at Birchwood The two eventually auditioned for parts and got into the choir of the La Bohème opera that Moahi was already part of. “We also got smaller roles as well as understudies. When we started talking about the idea of forming a group it was during lunchtime and rehearsals. But we were always sure we wanted to be different to Pavarotti, Domingo and Carreras.” When the Afro Tenors came onto the scene, they turned the world of opera upside down with their African essence.  The three had planned to study different careers: Moahi was supposed to go into law, Sibanda auditing and Mabena medicine. But they all ended up in Pretoria, studying operatic techniques. As opera is not so popular in black communities, the community of choral, classical and operatic music is a small one. READ: All that Jazz at the Birchwood Hotel The Afro Tenors chose to spread their wings in the country through the work they do as ambassadors for the government, and their own initiatives to enhance opera and find talents. “We were more passionate about contributing towards building a new country; at that time, not even seasoned classical musicians thought about making a classical recording. There was so much opportunities here compared to anywhere else in the world,” Sibanda said. The trio are now working on a legacy tour, which will also be a live DVD recording. "We believe in quality. We will document the tour and show people what we do every day, from working with young people, to adjudicating music competitions and facilitating workshops.” The Birchwood Comes Alive Jazz Evening takes place on June 8 and will feature Oliver Mtukudzi as the main headline act. Naledi Brown will open the show and Simphiwe Shembe and Elton Mduduzi will provide the comedy. The event is hosted by resident MC Hector Motivator. Tickets are R450 per person and R4500 for a table of 10. For more information or to book, contact Portia Rathebe on 011 897 0024, email portiar@birchwoodhotel.co.za or visit www.birchwoodhotel.co.za @mane_mpi