Stories about the freedom fighter’s leadership of the liberation Struggle movement, the ANC, abound - but only a few know his human side and, most of all, how central the arts and music were in his life. Voices On OR: A Musical Tribute for Oliver Tambo will see several local and international artists, poets, authors and politicians collaborate. Through a double-album recording of new music and the spoken word, music director Gloria Bosman and producer McCoy Mrubata will head the project. Mrubata is marshalling the Beda Hall Double Quartet, which is named after Tambo’s band at Fort Hare. The liberation Struggle icon played the role of a vocalist in the band. Forming part of today’s Quartet are Paul Hanmer, Ayanda Sikade, Khaya Ceza, Shane Cooper, Tlale Makhene and Feya Faku. Afro-pop singer Vusi Nova will represent the young pop music generation while Pretty Yende will contribute an opera feel to the project. Also taking part are seasoned music campaigners including Jonathan Butler, Tsepo Tshola, Mandisa Dlanga, Jabu Magubane, Herbie Tsoaeli and Steve Dyer. Giants of South African spoken word and literature Don Mattera, Lesego Rampolokeng, Mongane “Wally” Serote and Lefifi Tladi will add their poetic voices. “The objective of the unique project is to utilise music, art, poetry and storytelling to contribute in narrating the story of Tambo along with disseminating educational information on South Africa’s socio-political history, thus bridging the misunderstanding and knowledge gap between the younger and older generations,” said Wandile Yani, the project initiator and executive producer. Narrators for the recording include Thabo Mbeki, Frene Ginwala, Pallo Jordan, General Siphiwe Nyanda, Mavuso Msimang, Lindiwe Mabuza, Mac Maharaj, Gertrude Shope, Father Thanduxolo Magadla and Tambo’s children Thembi, Dali and Tselane. All narration will be accompanied by music performed mainly by the Beda Hall Double Quartet. Participating artists from abroad include R&B crooner Eric Benet; emerging teenage singer Cam Anthony; hip-hop MC Javier Starks, and jazz cats such as Gerald Clayton, Ambrose Akinmusire and Miles Mosley. Performances on the recording will be characterised by interpretations of musical themes based on events around Tambo’s life. Included will be a composition titled Tambo’s Dance - a song inspired by an event in 1963 where Tambo got so excited by the contents of a document for Operation Mayibuye that he leapt out of his chair and did a jubilant dance around the room. The album is set to be released on October 27, the birth date of the late icon.