Johannesburg - The case against Peter-Paul Ngwenya, accused of calling his former friend and business partner Investec chief executive Fani Titi a "Qwaqwa k#&**!r", has taken a U-turn. The legal council representing Ngwenya wants Magistrate Pravina Rugoonandan to reopen the state case and recall two witnesses. Ngwenya is appearing at the Randburg Magistrate Court on Wednesday. He faces charges of crimen injuria. Advocate Benny Buthelezi said as the defense they want state witnesses to be recalled in order to get "clarity on a couple of points." The State argued that the defense needed to convince the court why it should rule in their favour. Titi has taken Ngwenya to court claiming he had threatened and called him the k-word. The two businessmen are currently involved in a messy fight over R54-million allegedly owed to Ngwenya by Titi in a business deal for their radio stations, Gagasi FM, Kaya FM and Heart 104.9 FM. In June 2016, Ngwenya allegedly sent an SMS to Titi’s business partner Aqueel Patel and in which he called Titi, who was born in the Free State a “QwaQwa k#&**!r.” After the text message was sent,  Titi and Patel had applied for and were granted a protection order prohibiting Ngwenya from directly and indirectly threatening them. In the previous court appearance, Titi told the court that he had taken Ngwenya's threats seriously because of his military past. Ngwenya spent six years in Robben Island after he was caught transporting a missile from Botswana. Titi said that the financial dispute between the two had caused Ngwenya to behave uncharacteristically aggressive. He recalled an event in November 2016, when Ngwenya came to their offices demanding the money he was owed. Titi informed the court that Ngwenya threatened them. He said to the receptionist  ‘If they don’t pay my money, I am going to kill these dogs.’ Titi told the court that during the incident he was told to lock himself in his office. After the incident, Titi opened a case with the police against Ngwenya because he was in breach of the protection order. Titi said being called a Qwaqwa k-word was dehumanising because his family didn’t have a choice but were forcibly moved by the Apartheid government to live in the Bantustan. He said: “There was a representative word of the past and reference to a homeland, which I did not choose. Having both words used against me by an ex-Robben Island prisoner is a dehumanisation.” Magistrate Rugoonandan adjourned the court to apply her mind. @SthembisoMedia The Star