She had decided to go the Women 360 event in Cape Town the day before the regional finals were held. “I don’t know exactly what it was, it was just a feeling I got, I can’t describe it.” Many people asked her why she decided to go ahead with it when she had said she would first finish her studies.  “You don’t want to disappoint your parents after five years of medical school. It was just like my heart told me to get on the stage, and I did it.” The regional finals were a lot of fun for her. Although she was rusty because she hadn’t modelled for some time, it all still felt familiar to her. Fast-forward to this past Sunday, and that overwhelming feeling in her heart to enter the competition was solidified. “It was a shocker when they called my name. This whole week has been so overwhelming. I’ve been very busy with the many calls I’ve been receiving, and to be honest, I think the whole thing only sunk in on Tuesday.”  After the event had ended and the afterparty had died down, Green went to her room and felt tons of emotions. “I’m just not used to all this attention, all the gifts. It has been a lot to take in, but my team told me that this was natural and that I should give it a few weeks to get used to. I feel abundantly blessed.” Before winning Miss South Africa, she thought about the reality of that happening when she entered the competition. “I knew it would be a different world to the one I’m used to. And a completely different job because it’s not just pageant life. I thought about the attention and spoke to my family and friends about it. But all that preparation couldn’t prepare me for when it actually happened.” It was important for her to stay true to herself throughout the competition. “You meet all these lovely women, and they are all beautiful and amazing. Everyone has their own strengths and you start to wonder if you are the person for this job, if you should speak like this person or should be shaped like this person. There were days when I had to bring myself back to why I entered, and faith had a lot to do with it.”  The 23-year-old’s dream of becoming a doctor were partly because her father also wanted to become one, but the apartheid system did not give him the opportunity. “I always wanted to fulfil that dream for him in high school. When I went to university and started medicine, I fell in love with it so much.” Education is a big part of the Green family. Her father is a curriculum adviser and her mother is a teacher. After her win she spent time watching videos of the pageant from her hometown in the Western Cape.  “The people went crazy, I wish I was there with them. My mom couldn’t say anything; we just both started crying and my dad just told me how proud of me he was.” When Green gets time to go home, she can’t wait to gather the whole family around for some tea and a good storytelling session. For now, she is focused on her new role as an ambassador for the country and becoming an inspiration for many people. “I want to be remembered as someone approachable and down to earth. I want the main message from me to be ‘always be yourself and be comfortable in your skin and find your strengths’. Don’t be limited by your circumstances, find your strengths and make a success of your life.” @mane_mpi