Advocate Benny Buthelezi, Ngwenya’s lawyer, on Wednesday asked magistrate Pravina Rugoonandan to reopen the State’s case and recall two witnesses. The State closed its case last month. Buthelezi said the witnesses had to be recalled in order to get “clarity on a couple of points”. “We believe this is in the interest of justice and it would not be prejudicial to the State’s case,” Buthelezi said. Prosecutor Yusuf Baba opposed the application and argued that the defence needed to convince the court why it should rule in their favour. After the court had adjourned for a couple of minutes for the magistrate to decide, Rugoonandan dismissed the application. Titi has taken Ngwenya to court claiming he had threatened and called him the k-word. The two businessmen - friends for more than 20 years - are involved in a messy fight over R54million allegedly owed to Ngwenya by Titi in a business deal involving several radio stations. In June 2016, Ngwenya allegedly sent an SMS to Titi’s business partner, Aqueel Patel, and in which he called Titi, who was born in the Free State, a “Qwaqwa k****r”. After the text message was sent, Titi and Patel applied for, and were granted, a protection order prohibiting Ngwenya from directly and indirectly threatening them. In a previous court appearance, Titi told the court he had taken Ngwenya’s threats seriously because of his military past. Ngwenya spent six years on Robben Island after being found with an arms cache. Titi said the financial dispute between the two had caused Ngwenya to behave uncharacteristically aggressive. He recalled an event in November 2016, when Ngwenya came to their offices demanding the money he was owed. Titi informed the court that Ngwenya threatened them. He said to the receptionist: “If they don’t pay my money, I am going to kill these dogs.” Titi told the court that during the incident, he had to lock himself in his office. After the incident, Titi opened a case with the police against Ngwenya, because he was in breach of the protection order. Titi said being called a “Qwaqwa k-word” was dehumanising because his family did not choose to live in the Bantustan, but was forced to by the apartheid government. He said: “There was a representative word of the past and reference to a homeland, which I did not choose. Having both words used against me by an ex-Robben Island prisoner is a dehumanisation.” Ngwenya’s defence has revealed that they would be filing a new application to have the charges dismissed. The trial is expected to resume on Thursday. @SthembisoMedia