Even though the African Super Eagles may not have qualified for the next round of the #FifaWorldCup, the four young Russian tourists visiting the country to enjoy the soccer in true Mzansi’s style, have fallen in love with the continent. At a DStv screening of the highly anticipated Nigeria vs Argentina game, the foursome- Veronika 'Mbali' Fofanova, Tatiana 'Thando' Beloshapkina, Dmitry 'Thabo' Pogosov and Slav 'Sbu' Morozov were at the Asanka Restaurant in Sandton on Wednesday night to watch the game. The game ended with a win for the Argentinians after they managed to get in two goals to Nigeria's one. As an opportunity to support Nigeria the #NomaRashiya group showed off their vuvuzela skills and tried out the special Nigerian cuisine. The group arrived two weeks ago, just in time to catch the entire World Cup on Mzansi soil and were given the Africannames by television personality Somizi Mhlongo. In a brief chat with The Star, the #NomaRashiya squad unpacked the various things they have been up to so far since their arrival two weeks ago. All agreed that Cape Town was a highlight, filled with rich culture and beauty. Morozov told The Star that their latest trip in Cape Town made him wish that many more Russians could experience the beauty of the country and its history. “I have had so much experience in South Africa, you are a perfect country with 11 languages,” he said. He added that he had mastered a few words in isiZulu and seSotho namely, ‘Sawubona’ and ‘Dumelang’. “There are Russians around the world but very few in South Africa. I mean, I hope that next summer there will be more people coming down to rest, surf and enjoy the place.”. Pogosov, a travel blogger, told The Star that he was intrigued with the different languages. “Russia is a place known for its deep culture and it is the same here. It’s very interesting to learn different languages and cultures in one country,” he said. The four will be heading to KwaZulu-Natal next to enjoy the biggest horse racing event on the South African calendar, the Vodacom Durban July. @Zwane_2li2ls