Sports fans all around Mzansi were cheering on raucously after the Springboks, the Proteas women and the Bok Sevens teams achieved a treble of victories over arch-rivals England, while the illustrious Comrades Marathon was also won by South Africans Bongmusa Mthembu and Ann Ashworth. The icing on the cake, though, was the Blitzboks stealing the World Rugby Sevens Series championship from under the noses of Fiji by beating England 24-14 in Paris yesterday evening. This meant that the Blitzboks retained their World Series title. After a couple of glum seasons that have seen the Springboks fall down to seventh position in the World Rugby rankings, the Boks roared back after facing a 24-3 deficit to claim an unforgettable come-from-behind 42-39 victory at Emirates Airline Park on Saturday. The win had even greater significance due to new Springbok captain Siya Kolisi - the first black African to lead the Boks - running out in the very same No 6 jersey Madiba famously wore on that unforgettable day when Francois Pienaar's Boks famously lifted the golden World Cup trophy back in 1995. Bok wings Sibusiso Nkosi and Aphiwe Dyantyi delivered master-class performances in their Bok debut, with Nkosi scoring a brace of tries while Dyantyi scored a try as well. "It is a huge honour to score on my debut. Yes I do (remember every part of the game). With a burning chest it is hard to forget, it's tough playing at altitude; we did well though it was tough. I won't forget this game very soon," Nkosi said. "I wasn't nervous in the beginning. The little amount of nerves I did experience were diminished very quickly by the older guys," Nkosi said. "I don't think it gets better than that," the 23-year-old Dyantyi said. The Madiba spirit stretched all the way through the West Midlands of England where Dane van Niekerk's Proteas team avenged last year's heart-breaking ICC Women's World Cup semi-final defeat to the hosts. Van Niekerk led from the front with a sparkling half-century, while opener Lizelle Lee also contributed a powerful 92 not out to steer the Proteas to a comprehensive seven-wicket victory over the world champions. The win could not be achieved without the sparking performances of seam bowlers Shabnim Ismail (3/25) and Ayabonga Khaka (3/42). The revelry continued closer to home with the Comrades once again proving to be a celebration of the human spirit, with Durban and Pietermaritzburg putting on a spectacle. Mthembu completed a hat trick of victories after previously winning in 2014 and 2017. Mthembu won in a time of 5:26.35 and is right behind Comrades "king" Bruce Fordyce on the all-time South African winners' list. "When I crossed the finish line I was very emotional. To win the Comrades is not easy, it took a lot of kilometres (of training)," Mthembu said. “It means a lot to me and I am looking forward to seeing what is going to happen after this win. I am lucky because I do it for the love of the sport, so I think that is the main driving force." Mthembu had to deal with the death of close teammate Siphiwe Ndlela, who died at a training camp in March. He had to cut his training camp short for a memorial service for Ndlela. Mthembu made history last year when he became the first South African to win the race more than once since Fordyce. Fordyce was coincidentally the last local athlete to win back-to-back titles, in 1988.