Renowned  DJ Shimza is set to showcase his immense talent when he hosts his annual One Man Show Soweto Edition in Zone 6 this weekend. Over the years Shimza has kept his fans entertained with his One Man Shows. Last year he hosted his 9th annual show in Tembisa with different artists accompanying him. The show was also a charity-driven event hosted to benefit orphaned schoolchildren from Tembisa. In 2016, Shimza raised enough money to buy school uniforms for over 400 learners and he hopes to increase the number to 1 000 learners in the near future. The 29-year-old, whose real name is Ashley Raphala, said he was ready to make the fourth Soweto edition of his One Man Show memorable and bring a powerful spark of good music to entertain thousands of fans. Speaking to The Star, the Tembisa-born Afro-house DJ, who is currently in Ibiza, Spain, said he was ready for the show, which takes place on Saturday. “I am staying in Ibiza for the summer, because I have a residency at a club called Privilege every Thursday. “I’m working on one day owning my own night club on this island, because it would work for my career and where I want to see myself in the next five to 10 years. “Everything is going well; I made sure that I put everything in place before leaving. Zone 6 is also the perfect venue for me, because the logistics are not as challenging as with an outdoor event. “I chose Zone 6 because it’s mid-winter and the venue is indoors, but it will still have a festival feel to it. I needed to stage something big in Soweto.” Shimza, who first hosted his annual show in 2011 in Tembisa, said his One Man Shows started when he thought of an idea to entertain people and help the needy. His fans can expect a mind-blowing performance. “They can expect a show out of the ordinary, that’s going to blow them away with new music. They must come prepared mentally and can expect an unforgettable production.” Shimza last week announced that he had joined Amstel SA as their brand ambassador. What sets him apart from other DJs is that he doesn’t plan, but works with the emotions he gets from his fans, he pointed out. “I don’t plan, I work with the emotions I get from people when I am the DJ. I read the crowd and instantly know what I need to give them,” he said. Some of the artists who will be performing include Emtee, Busiswa, Moozlie, Shekinah, Sjava and others. Tickets are R150 and R350 VIP and available at Computicket . @SthembisoMedia