The reappointment of Joe Mojapelo as Ekurhuleni chief operations officer raised eyebrows last June after he controversially quit a senior post in 2010 amid a dodgy tender for a stadium construction. Independent Ratepayers Association of SA (Irasa) councillor Izak Berg last week filed a complaint with the Office of the Public Protector. Mojapelo began his second stint with the metro in June last year after suddenly resigning from his post as project manager for the 2010 Fifa World Cup amid a forensic investigation into the validity of the expenditure incurred in his office. Public Protector spokesperson Oupa Segalwe confirmed that the office had received the complaint. “The file has been allocated to an investigator, who will communicate with relevant parties within five working days on the approach to the investigation,” he said. Themba Gadebe, spokesperson for the City of Ekurhuleni, said the metro would co-operate with the Public Protector if approached. “We are aware of the SIU (Special Investigating Unit) investigation regarding the 2010 special projects, we however still do not have the outcome,” he said. Approached for comment, Mojapelo said he was not aware of the investigations implicating him. “You (The Star) started this whole thing, if I remember correctly. Show it to me (the SIU report),” he said. Asked if he was aware of the SIU investigation into the 2010 projects, he said: “What investigation? I am asking you, you are asking me. There's no SIU investigation that I am aware of.” The SIU last year confirmed that the investigation had been concluded, and a report had been referred to the Presidency. In his complaint, Berg argues that Mojapelo's reappointment was invalid as he had been the subject of an audit investigation and an SIU probe into the validity of the expenditure incurred in 2010. “The (former) city manager Khaya Ngema confirmed that an audit conducted against (Mojapelo) and his department,” Berg wrote. “Mojapelo resigned during the investigation, and the audit report by Ekurhuleni was never tabled. However, the SIU continued with their investigation and made serious findings against Mojapelo. “(He) was reappointed during a committee extraordinary council meeting on March 16,  2017. A roll call (division) was called by (four) political parties (DA, Irasa, FF+ and Cope) because it was believed that this appointment was invalid because of the SIU investigation,” Berg contends in the complaint. Mojapelo was investigated by the SIU for fraud and corruption. The SIU investigation was concluded in 2016 but its finding were never made public. The Mail & Guardian last year reported that the SIU report, dated November 25, 2016, had found "harshly" against Mojapelo. The Star also has the report. The audit focused on a company that was paid R6million for the greening of sportsfield projects. The company was owned by a prominent Ekurhuleni ANC bigwig. The audit sought to determine whether there was fruitless and wasteful expenditure, and irregular and invalid costs. The company was paid R5.4m over nine months leading up to July 2009. A further R470000 was paid between March and April that year. The investigation found that the contract had been awarded through an “unjustified” deviation, which was prepared by Mojapelo. No findings were made against the company. @Sihle_MG