The fire that destroyed the Eikenhof substation, leaving many areas without water and electricity could have been the work of an arsonist. This is after Joburg mayor Herman Mashaba said it had been brought to his attention that City Power officials suspect that the cause of the fire may have been the result of a deliberate act of sabotage. “A video has emerged which proves that the fire had originated outside the transformer at the substation. Further to this, the transformer appears to have been maliciously damaged so that it would leak oil onto the fire. These facts are simply not consistent with a fire originating from an electrical fault,” Mashaba pointed out. The mayor has told City Power to refer the matter to the city's group forensic and investigation services and the police for further investigations. Mashaba said the substation provides electricity to large residential, business and industrial areas and also powers Rand Water in the vicinity. "The Rand Water infrastructure powers 40% of Joburg as well as parts of the West Rand and as far afield as Rustenburg," Mashaba said. Following the massive powercut that also affected the supply of water to the  Eikenhof Pumping Station, some Joburg schools urged their learners to bring water bottles to school. “Please bring a water bottle with water to school in case water is a problem. We will ensure the toilets have water. Thank you,” said a message from Parktown Girls' High School to parents. City Power has been working around the clock to restore operations at its Eikenhof substation and advised hospitals, clinics and schools to contact Johannesburg Water if they need alternative supplies. Water and electricity supplies were cut off when an electrical transformer at the substation exploded on Monday afternoon, leaving a large cloud of smoke and power outages in Joburg south, including Kibler Park, Eikenhof, Loughrin, Naturena, Alveda and Johannesburg Prison. City Power spokesperson Isaac Mangena said investigators were still trying to determine the cause of the fire.