Nedbank and Radio 702 have distanced themselves from Adam Catzavelos, a Joburg man who recorded himself using the K-word while on a beach in what is believed to be Greece. The two companies had to release a statement following some people on Twitter tagging them and asking, especially Nedbank, to publicly condemn the incident. This stems from the fact that Catzavelos was interviewed on Radio 702 four years ago when he took part in a Business Accelerator Programme that was sponsored by Nedbank. In a joint statement, both Nedbank and Radio 702 said: Nedbank and 702 strongly condemn all forms of racism. Adam Catzavelos is not a Nedbank employee. He took part in a Business Accelerator Programme four years ago (2014). "He was profiled on this programme, hosted on 702 and sponsored by Nedbank, along with other entrepreneurs. The show has featured more than 360 entrepreneurs over a period of six years." In the video that has gone viral and has left Catzavelos trending for all the wrong reasons, he in on a beach, wearing sunglasses and a straw hat, straw hat, recording himself. He then says: Let me give you the weather forecast here. Blue skies, beautiful day, amazing scene and not one k@%$*in sight...f*&^%$# heaven on earth. You can not beat this." The video created a twitter storm with some calls to boycott businesses linked to him such as St George's Fine Foods, The Smoke House and Grill Fourways and BBQ King Distributors. Others even put pictures of his house on Twitter as well as his ID number. Some want to go and "welcome" him at the airport once he returns from his holiday. Many others such as @vonchy19  were shocked to see that despite being far away from black people, Catzavelos still had time to be hateful towards them. She tweeted: "This dude was out on holiday... sunny skies, blue beaches, YET he STILL found the time to be hateful towards black people who were nowhere near him. Being a racist is a full time commitment #AdamCatzavelos."    Even @MissLeloB concurred, writing: "Thinking about #AdamCatzavelos. He could have quietly enjoyed the sun/beach sipping on cocktails without a care & whispered his racist thoughts to the nearest person but NO -he had to record himself saying the K word & put his racism on blast. Confident stupidity. Jail him." According to @Krabbles7, it really makes no sense as to why Catzavelos would say what he did about black people, seeing that no black person seemed to have had provoked him. "#AdamCatzavelos was not even provoked. He can't pull, "I was angry". Very chilled, sober and clear-minded," he tweeted. There have been two prominent cases related to racism incidents in South Africa. Estate agent Penny Sparrow was convicted of crimen injuria and fined R5 000 at the Scottburgh Magistrate's Court in relation to racist comments she made, comparing black people to monkeys on a Faceboo post in 2016. She was handed a R5 000 fine or 12 months imprisonment. In her Facebook post, Sparrow had written: "These monkeys that are allowed to be released on New Year’s Eve and New Year’s day on to public beaches towns, etc, obviously have no education whatsoever, so to allow them loose is inviting huge dirt and troubles and discomfort to others. "I’m sorry to say that I was amongst the revellers and all I saw were black on black skins, what a shame. I do know some wonderful and thoughtful black people. This lot of monkeys just don’t want to even try. But think they can voice opinions and get their way of dear‚" she continued. Sparrow was also taken to the Equality Court where she was handed down a  R150 000 fine. Another estate agent, Vicki Momberg was sentenced to an effective two years in prison by the Randburg Magistrate's Court for her racist tirade in 2016 in which she called a black police the K-word 50 times. Momberg is out on bail as she is currently appealing her sentence. 