Johannesburg - Infuriated EFF Gauteng members gathered at Bramley Police Station on Wednesday to open a criminal case of racism against Adam Catzavelos. Gauteng EFF chairperson Mandisa Mashego said the party will give Bramley police until 5 pm on Thursday to arrest Adam Catzavelos or they would resort to picketing the Bramley police station on Friday. This is after the party laid criminal charges against Catzavelos for his provoking video which circulated on social media."The EFF will not tolerate name calling and we are done with the reconciliation. We want the land back. You can't rape someone and apologize, justice must prevail," The EFF leader was accompanied by Pastor Mboro earlier today who said he was deeply disturbed by the emergence of this clip and as the first pastor to bless the party. Mashego arrived at the police station accompanied by Paseka Motsoeneng, also known as Pastor Mboro. They were ushered into an office where they waited to be assisted. Catzavelos left many angry when a video of him saying he was basically having the time of life because there was not a single African person where he was surfaced. "Let me give you a weather forecast here; blue skies, beautiful day, amazing sea and not one k****r in sight," he said, using a belittling term for black people that was used the during the apartheid regime in South Africa. "F****ng heaven on earth," Catzavelos added. It appears that the party laying charges (EFF) and South Africans at large were not the only ones displeased with what happened because his family has since distanced themselves from him. In a statement, Catzavelos' family said it was appalled by the video. "It is abhorrent and we fully disassociate ourselves from the sentiments expressed. We reject racism in any form," family representative Nic Catzavelos said. “Adam has been dismissed with immediate effect from the family business, St George’s Fine Foods and his minority shareholding will be unwound as soon as practically possible," he said.