It was a jam-packed two days with amateur chefs and food aficionados coming to taste and whip up creative takes of the much loved staple. From vegetarian kotas to kotas with a touch of traditional flair, there was something for everyone to enjoy. Sidwell Tshingilane, the founder of the festival, said this year was all about the festival becoming bigger and better. “We are going to introduce old school games this year. Last year, we had 30 stalls and this year we are going to have an additional 15 stalls because we are trying to reduce the queues that we had at the stalls last year. We will also have entertainment with top local DJs and upcoming performers,” he said. Tshingilane said there would also be additional demonstrations from brands like Lucky Star. The South African Chefs Association and the Mutton and Beef Association would be giving demonstrations on how to cook and put together recipes. He added that at last year’s event, there were people who came from as far afield as Swaziland to come and see the various vendors. There will again be prizes for the best kota, as well as two runner-up prizes.   “After the festival, people wanted to support some of the kota houses that were selling but were struggling to locate them, so now there is an app that has been launched that identifies the different places.” Last year’s winners, Rgb-Private Chefs, took home R15000 worth of marketing support from the headline sponsor, Sasko. The kota was a three-tiered bread stack filled with eggs, chios, lettuce, peppers, burger patty and more.   Donald Moeng and Mahlatsi Mogale run a successful catering company. Sasko has renewed its sponsorship of the Soweto Kota Festival this year. The brand came on board as the first headline sponsor of the inaugural event last year. “As you know, bread is a big part of our South African heritage. The festival is a natural fit for the brand. I mean, what’s a kota without a soft tasty loaf of bread from a trusted brand,” said Lungie Mnyamana, Sasko’s brand manager. Mnyamana added that last year they gave away great prizes to the value of R30 000 to some of the vendors in the form of marketing support. “This year we are planning to give away more prizes, and not only to the vendors, as we plan to delight guests on the day too.” The festival will take place on September 8 and 9. @mane_mpi