North West deputy police commissioner Major-General Ntebo “Jan” Mabula and nine other officers are to face charges for the torture of suspects more than a decade after the incident occurred. The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) said members of the former North West Organised Crime Unit under Mabula’s leadership allegedly committed the crimes in 2006. The officers, based in Klerksdorp, allegedly tortured two suspects apparently involved in a multimillion-rand robbery in Benoni in 2006. Ipid spokesperson Moses Dlamini said the officers would appear in the Johannesburg Regional Court. This followed a decision by the South Gauteng Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) to charge them for the alleged torture of the two suspects, who were allegedly involved in the robbery of the Benoni SAP13 store where exhibits are kept. “Ipid conducted the investigation and made recommendations to the DPP for the notorious team’s prosecution, which the DPP has agreed to. “It is alleged that 10 suspects, who were implicated in the R14m Benoni robbery, were arrested by Mabula and his team. Most of the suspects ended up dead or disappeared. “One was allegedly tortured and murdered in Mmakau by the same police officers. Two of the surviving three were allegedly tortured by the notorious police officers,” Dlamini pointed out. He said the crimes were committed after the Torture Act was enacted, and that the officers had been charged with torture. Ipid is still awaiting a decision on the case of murder and torture against the same team. “Mabula’s team allegedly used the same modus operandi as in the murder and torture case, as well as another matter where two of Mabula team members are appearing in a Klerksdorp court on charges of assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm,” Dlamini said. The Klerksdorp case is due to resume in September. Ipid is still awaiting a response from the police on numerous disciplinary recommendations made against the Mabula team. “Non-action by the police on these matters is a contravention of section 30 of the Ipid Act, which obliges them to initiate disciplinary action within 30 days of receiving Ipid recommendations,” he pointed out. @smashaba  The Star