The death of infants at Thelle Mogoerane Hospital due to a suspected antibiotic-resistant bacteria led to workers downing tools on Tuesday. At least two infants have died in a neonatal ward at the East Rand hospital since July and on Tuesday the workers handed a memorandum to the management calling for the CEO, Nomonde Mqhayi-Mbambo, to step down. On Wednesday they protested, demanding to know when Mqhayi-Mbambo would finally be leaving. DA Gauteng Shadow MEC for Health Jack Bloom visited the hospital and raised concerns about the recent deaths of the infants. Bloom said the CEO must explain herself as to why workers were unhappy. "This is very serious. I am here to see for myself how conditions are and if there is a cover up, I want to see for myself. In the meeting with the CEO, it was revealed that seven infants have been infected with antibiotic-resistant Klebsiella, and two of them have died. Mqhayi-Mbambo told Bloom who was accompanied by DA MPL Neil Campbell that the first case was identified on July 9 and that one of the infants died last month and another in August. Bloom said the CEO said the remaining five infants have been isolated and are being treated. “The neonatal ward has been scrubbed down and stringent infection control measures are enforced to prevent further infections. They have unfortunately not yet identified the source of the infection. “I am concerned that severe overcrowding and staff shortages have contributed to the deaths of the babies,” he said. The Gauteng Heath Department is expected to start an investigation in to the deaths. Bloom said the department “needs to thoroughly investigate the Klebsiella infection and fix the underlying problems at this troubled hospital.” One of the workers who asked not to be mentioned said they feel unsafe. This follows an incident were community members stormed the hospital and allegedly beat up one of the doctors. "The community recently came here and attacked a doctor. This hospital is always full and we don't have enough nurses and doctors. When people come here, they demand to be attended immediately and that is impossible because there are people on the queue," she said. Some workers said they were not going anywhere until the current CEO and management leaves the hospital for good. @SthembisoMedia