This Saturday, as part of Women’s Month celebrations, the trio will take part in the Wine, Women and Jazz Experience celebrations. Now in its second year, the event will bring together women from all walks of life to enjoy a day of relaxation, good music and networking. The first event was held at Winnie’s Soul and Jazz Restaurant last year.  “At the time, we brought together leading South African women for an afternoon of social and business networking, music, wine and all things fabulous,” said event founder Nothemba Madumo. 4Ever Jazz is the brainchild of the jazz aficionado and radio host, who started the concept as a way to promote the jazz genre. For this event, 4Ever Jazz will have singers, writers, dancers, actors, fashion designers, TV and radio personalities, entrepreneurs and businesswomen pampered and treated to good food, gifts, messages from inspiring speakers, and jazz performances from top female jazz stars and DJs.      “4Ever Jazz honours and celebrates not only all the talented women who continue to ascend to the stage to soothe us with their jazz music, but also mothers, wives and partners who continue to make a home to nurture these geniuses who create the society we live in,” said Madumo. The plan for the weekend's event will be to celebrate women in jazz. "That’s why we have on stage Gloria, Thandi and Gugu. "These are women who will be performing at the jazz festival, which is part of the partnership with Joy of Jazz and to give a taste of what people can expect at the actual jazz festival.” Author and relationship coach Kofi Ofori-Boateng will also be attending. “There will be lovely conversations around the topic of power dynamics for women in the workplace, in relationships and in the bedroom. "We will be having a wine- tasting, and sampling wine introduced by women,” said Madumo, adding that men were also invited. “The men complained the last time, so this time they can come, but they must just enjoy and be quiet,” she joked. Madumo, who will also be on stage on the night, said 4Ever Jazz was a platform that created experiences through events and media to promote the culture and lifestyle of jazz. “The only time people get to experience jazz is if there is a concert put up. "There are limited venues for jazz musicians and there are so many of them, young and old, and they really love to perform. "I try to do that with 4Ever Jazz and change the narrative that it is more than just music for the old uncles sitting under a tree on a Sunday afternoon.” Another event 4Ever Jazz will head up is the Afterparty Jam Session on September 29 that takes place at the end of the Joy of Jazz Festival. “Wine, Women and Jazz will also celebrate the stories of women who have been touched, cushioned and strengthened by song throughout the long struggle for freedom and a better life for themselves and their loved ones,” said Madumo. The event will start at 5.30pm on Saturday and tickets cost R400. @mane_mpi