JOHANNESBURG - The search is over and six presenters have come out tops for Presenter Search on 3. The television channel has welcomed Harmony Katulondi, Ryle De Morny, Fezile Mkhize, Palesa Tembe and Thabiso Makhubela to the SABC 3 family. For the first time in the show's history, there are six presenter winners. “Speaking French will allow me to add to an international flare to Top Billing. My diverse background, upbringing and curious nature will also bring an interesting perspective to the segments,” Harmony said shortly after receiving his spot on Top Billing. An excited Ryle Said:  “I’m going to bring a fresh new energy to this show. I hope to share as much love as possible and take viewers on awesome journeys with me as we discover and showcase moments, events and areas in a unique, raw and genuinely real way.” Fezile said he planned to “maintain the high standard it’s always been known for with a huge dose of energy and most importantly heart”.      Television presenting is not just about the fame, it’s a career that demands more than looks on fleek and adoring social media fans. A presenter with all the social media finesse was Palesa who said: “I'm going to bring some spunk to afternoon TV. I’m excited to bring a younger energy to the show and add to the already positive atmosphere the show (Afternoon Express) delivers on a daily basis.” Lastly, brand analyst Thabiso joins South Africa’s feel-good breakfast show, Expresso. “I love Expresso and I can’t wait to bring my refreshing, upbeat energy to the show. The show is extremely important because people are waking up and the tone of the show sets the audience’s mood for the entire day. ALSO READ: Presenter Search is looking for you In addition to becoming the new presenters on the channel’s TV shows, this year’s winners will also become the new faces of SABC 3. A twist to the season was an additional position given to Mosa Kaiser,  who didn’t get a permanent slot on SABC 3’s flagship shows but the judges felt that her talent shouldn’t go to waste. Kaiser was announced as the Joburg field reporter for the various shows. @Zwane_2li2ls