City Power is working around the clock to bring power back at its Eikenhof substation. This after an electrical transformer exploded on Monday leaving a large cloud of smoke and power outages in Johannesburg south including Kibler Park, Naturena, Alveda, Rand Water, Eikenhof and Loughrin and the Johannesburg Prison. City Power spokesperson Isaac Mangena said their investigators were still trying to determine the cause of the fire. He said the substation runs with four transformers with one dedicated to Rand Water Board and another for residential and business customers. “The transformer that was destroyed in the fire is the one dedicated to Rand Water. However due to the severity of the fire the other three transformers were affected with one partially burnt and the overhead line also damaged,” he said. The transformer is part of the electricity facility supplying water to Eikenhof Pumping Station and this has left many Gauteng residents and some parts of the North West without water. MMC Nico Dr Jager and City Power CEO Lerato Setshedi as well as technicians were on site to oversee the repairs. Mangena said the team was working around the clock to resolve the matter. “Residential transformer which feeds Kibler Park in particular was tested positively last night and that is why we managed to operate one line and there was partial power restoration. But because of work this morning and for safety reasons we had to switch it off to finish the work,” Mangena said. He said another new transformer has been brought in and was currently being assembled. “We should be able to test it around mid day and we estimate the repairs on the residential lines should be done by 19h00 this evening and partial restoration should be done to some suburbs,” Mangena said. He also said  because the Rand Water Board transformer was razed to the ground and requires a new transformer, it was going to take a little while to restore power to that line. He estimated that work would be done on that line by 12 midnight on Tuesday and "tests will done after that before we fully restore it." Rand Water spokesperson Justice Mohale said the Eikenhof Pumping Station relies on electricity.       “How it affected Rand Water is that our pumping station at Eikenhof Pumping Station relies on electricity for it to operate. The areas that may be affected are part of Roodepoort, Mogale City up to Rustenburg because we supply water to the local Rustenburg municipality and the mines around Rustenburg will be affected,” he said. Mohale said once the pumping station was fixed, “we will be able to start with our normal operations”. Hospitals, clinics and schools have been urged to contact Johannesburg Water if they need alternative water supplies. @SthembisoMedia