Women who have shaped the lives of others were honoured at the Proudly SA women in leadership celebration. Hosted by Ayanda-Allie Paine, the day was about celebrating women in every single area. Proudly SA chief marketing officer Happy Ngidi said: “Women’s Day for me is today, tomorrow, every hour, every second, every day, every month. “While this month is significant for women, it makes me happy to see so many celebrating the importance of women and their contribution to the economy, politics, business and the very fabric of our lives. “We still have a very long way to go to redress the injustices of the past and the inequality that women suffered and continue to suffer. “To this day, women still need to be given permission to do things.” Ngidi said South Africa had as many as 31% of companies with no women in management, while 28% of women hold senior management positions in companies. “Considering how many single female-headed households there are, it’s no surprise that we can’t rise to the levels of leadership of which we are capable, but we simply don’t have the capacity. “For too long we were expected to keep the home fires burning, while the men went out to make money.” Speakers for the day included Tsogo Sun’s Candy Tothill, 2015 Entrepreneur of the Year Nomsa Mazibuko and sisters Catherine Constantinides and Ella Bella Constantinides-Leite. “The problem with young people today is they are in a hurry to get there. “Being a woman in leadership is a journey, it doesn’t happen overnight, it has to come from somewhere. “The young girls I give time to and try to push, it is what they do with the information that I share with them," said Ngidi. Tothill spoke on the impostor syndrome, a “condition” that nine out of 10 women suffered from. “I can’t tell you enough how important you all are. Women in leadership especially suffer from this. That means that it is an inherent problem women have developed because they don’t think they are good enough. What it actually translates to is that we feel like someone made a mistake when they put us in a leadership position. We spend a lot of time sitting at boardroom tables wondering whether we deserve to be here. And those people who don’t suffer from it are criticised by other women because those kinds of women have managed to step into a role of not suffering from that and then they get told they are acting like a man.” Tothill said the new battle women had to fight was inside of themselves. “We have to do the internal work that enables us as people to stand up confidently in our place of power.’ Singer Nadya Mycroft kept the guests entertained while they enjoyed a light lunch at the La Toscana venue in Montecasino. @mane_mpi