On top of this, they are often ridiculed by society because of the terms and conditions people have placed on the importance of where women should be in their personal lives after a certain age. For Noko Moswete, finding the funny side in all this and telling real life stories of these statuses has allowed her to bring together some of the country’s funniest ladies to one stage. “I had been thinking about this for a long time. I have always wanted to do a comedy show about relationships alone but then I thought why don’t I get other comedians as well because I knew together we could have different flavours on the show.” Moswete, 34, is single. Her production, aptly titled Single, Divorced and Never Married, features five other women: single Tracey-Lee Oliver, divorced Hilda Sethosa, main chick Lihle Msimang, single and looking Lindy Johnson and single foodie, Lebogang “Funny Chef” Tlokana. Oliver, 38, met Moswete two years ago when they did the Bitches Be Back comedy show. “She killed it at that show. She has a genuine personality, a nice person who likes people and loves to see them laugh and be happy. It was a no-brainer for me to be part of this show,” said Oliver. The two have always had comedy in their lives. Moswete was introduced to stand-up comedy as a potential career through a Mashabela DVD she was given years ago. Oliver, who attended the launch of that DVD, said laughter was a coping mechanism for her growing up. “Comedy was always part of my life growing up in a poor coloured community in Cape Town. Laughter is what gets you by the hard times.” When Moswete finally decided on the all-female cast show, she first had to think about which comediennes would be a perfect fit. “I wanted authenticity because that is the kind of comedy I want to do. I want realism. When I called Hilda, I asked her if she was ready to talk about her experience and she said, ‘yes’. None of the ladies took offence because we are all in the ‘same’ boat. Tracey has seen more than me age wise. Lindy’s style of comedy is honest. I love people who joke from the heart and she is young and looking for a relationship. Lihle just had a baby and is in a stable relationship and - the main chick and has a full-time baby daddy.” Oliver said the show would be a little bit of everything as both her and Moswete were also talented vocally. “It is going to be more than just a comedy show, it is going to be this experience where people are looking in and participating with these friends who are talking and relating. This won’t be a once-off. “We want to make this a tour and grow and develop and take the audience on that experience with us.” She said it was about time there was a show where women could just speak their minds without censorship. “The playing ground is level for all women to play fairy and say whatever it is they feel.” Tlokana is a new addition to the all-women line-up. “She has a lot to say and to share that will blow people away,” said Moswete. She added the show would be about relating to different women’s experiences about the ups and downs of relationships. “The message I want to tell is not that relationships are a bad thing. Relationships are good (but) they shouldn’t cost you anything.” Single, Divorced and Never Married is on at the Destiny Hotel and Convention Centre on Saturday. Tickets cost R150.