The comedic trio Goliath and Goliath will be taking over South Africa for three months as they hit the road for their first Goliath Comedy Road Trip, in partnership with Sun International. The country’s versatile funny trio, Jason, Donovan and Nicholas Goliath, of Goliath and Goliath, announced that as a collective, fans can witness all three comedians in one show. Road Trip promises to be a memorable comedic experience. The Goliaths’ strength lies within their collective: three successful comedians with a national fan base who have an unconditional love and respect for their industry and a strong business acumen. Said Jason: “We have been waiting a long time for all of us to be ready and at a stage where we are very clear in terms of what our comedy voices are. “Not only are we excited to be on the road together, but the product is amazing and we are happy with the level of stand-up comedy we’re producing between the three of us.” “I don’t think people realise it, but this is the first time all three of us will be going on tour together. “We’ve had successful ensemble shows like Aweh Mzansi, but never just the Goliaths,” Donovan said. For Nicholas, this was a time to bond as brothers. “As much as we work to- gether, we don’t get as much time to bond and connect. “We have never travelled just the three of us and I’m looking forward to reconnecting and having fun,” said Nicholas. The comedians have promised their fans the time of their life. “We want people to be happy, smiling and laughing and enjoying the comedy. “When they come to watch the show we want them to forget about all their stress, even if it’s just for a few hours,” said Nicholas. The Goliaths’ mission has always been to be a brand recognised for putting comedy first, providing opportunities for all comedians and developing and educating audiences by consistently providing world- class stage productions. The trio’s company won the Savanna Comics Choice - The Best Friend of Comedy Award three years consecutively and has been nominated in the same category this year. Jason said winning these awards was one of their biggest achievements, which was what they had set out to do. “We were awarded Best Friends of Comedy and I like to think that the tour is a celebration of that,” he added. “Having a successful, world-class comedy venue at a premium destination with our name on it is a big deal for us,” said Donovan. “This tour was right up there with our goals, and it has taken a lot for us to finally button this down and make it work,” he added. The show takes them to the Wild Coast Sun, Sibaya, Carnival City, Carousel, Boardwalk, GrandWest, Meropa, Time Square and the Eastern Cape from September to December. @Zwane_2li2ls  The Star