Johannesburg - The 10-year-old daughter of Skeem Saam actress Shoki Mmola-Sebotsane, who has opened a domestic violence case against her actor ex-husband, is too traumatised to face her father in court. She apparently witnessed some of the violence that took place in her home in which her father, Broken Vows actor Sello Sebotsane, allegedly assaulted his now ex-wife, Mmola-Sebotsane. Mmola-Sebotsane and Sello appeared in the Johannesburg Magistrate’s Court on Thursday where he is facing charges of domestic violence and assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm. At the weekend, a poster with the hashtag #JusticeForShoki, was circulated on social media calling for people to show their support for her in court. The pair were married for 10 years. In March last year, Mmola-Sebotsane, who plays MaKunutu in Skeem Saam, lifted the lid on the alleged abuse she suffered in her marriage. She said she would sleep with a knife under her pillow in case she needed to defend herself in the middle of the night. It came to light during the court proceedings that their daughter had witnessed the alleged assaults in their home. A social worker from the Teddy Bear Clinic, Buyi Makhubela, testified about the child’s ability to give evidence in open court. Makhubela said the child would suffer undue stress if she was required to testify in her father’s presence in court. “The accused is well known, loved, respected and trusted. The child displayed intense feelings of fear, anticipating that she might be hurt,” she told the court. “The child has a severely limited ability to trust and is traumatised.” Makhubela added that it would be in the best interests of the girl to testify in a special court with a facilitator and a video live-streaming her testimony. The request was granted and the matter postponed to August 22, where another witness is to testify. Speaking to the media after the court adjourned, Mmola-Sebotsane said she had explained to her children that she needed to go ahead with the case, because “wrong and right do not run side by side”, and that she was doing it for them. “My child is also a victim (of abuse) because she lives in my house; she saw what happened and she will have to testify,” she added. The actress said it was significant that her case was being heard during Women’s Month. “It is a crime. Sello should not have come into my life to play God. He is not the one to decide whether I should live or die, it’s not up to him,” said Mmola-Sebotsane. “God decides when I need to go, not Sello Sebotsane,” she added. Members of the Cave of Adullam, a men’s organisation associated with the Gauteng Men’s Forum, gathered outside the court to say: “Women we are with you. You are not objects.” @Chulu_M The Star