When one thinks of traditional Ndebele art, we associate it with Dr Esther Mahlangu and Francina Ndimande, and their bold, large-scale contemporary paintings. Their teachings and gifts have been passed on to younger artists like Bakwateleni Jiyane who has taken the art and made it wearable and fashion forward. Jiyane, 38, was blessed with multiple talents, including being a traditional Ndebele artist and an actress. The actress, who's on the SABC’s new show iKani, takes traditional Ndebele art and makes it versatile by painting the traditional prints on clothing, accessories and shoes. Jiyane was taught how to paint Ndebele art at a young age on canvases and walls; however, she took her training and adapted it for a more modern and wearable version of the art. She was born in a village called Mthambothini in Mpumalanga. Jiyane’s father had four wives, including her mother, who was the first wife. Jiyane was raised with her two sisters and three brothers. Her journey as a multi-talented artist began in high school when she would go to the Ndebele Foundation after school where they would be mentored by Ndimande, who was the first Ndebele artist to exhibit her artwork overseas. As Jiyane’s relative on her maternal side of the family, she was a great inspiration in her life. “I still remember her words to me. She said, ‘My child, I am going to leave this world someday, so I’m going to leave this with you’,” Jiyane recalled. “Back then as children we took that lightly, but until this day I still remember what she said.” When she was younger Jiyane never saw her passion for art as a viable career path and something that she could make a living from. “I loved art but I was still a child and I didn’t understand that I can live off this,” she said. “I was just going there after school, but I loved it.” After matriculating, Jiyane went to work in a 9-to-5 job; however, she didn't find fulfilment in her job. Determined not to continue living her life in a job that made her unhappy, she recalled the skills and lessons she learnt from Ndimande. “I sat by myself and realised that Gogo left with a gift, because in my childhood, I took it lightly,” she said. In 2015 Jiyane decided to use her artistic talents to make a living for herself and her three sons. During this time she saved money to attend drama classes and started her business Gugu LamaNdebele Zemigwalo, selling her Ndebele products. Her career in acting started in theatre before she moved to our television screens. She will be appearing in the SABC’s new isi- Ndebele drama iKani as the lead character’s aunt Lucy. She has also previously acted in the Mzansi Magic drama Isibaya and Lincoln’s Clan, a pan- African drama on Africa Magic on DStv. Jiyane’s co-star on iKani and veteran actress Florence Masebe catapulted her work and made it trend after she posted Jiyane’s work on social media. Jiyane said she was grateful for Masebe’s help because she took her work to everyone via Twitter. Her advertising has brought her up to 100 orders a week. “My phone is always buzzing and ringing, especially now, because we are going towards December and Heritage Month,” she said. The popularity of her work had also motivated her to fight harder to start a foundation, because she needs more help with her orders. Jiyane’s work will also feature on iKani as part of the costume design and props. She feels very proud because in 2016 she was part of a group of people who marched to the SABC to demand more isiNdebele content on the public broadcaster. Her work featuring on the show was also thanks to Masebe, because the show’s producer, Wandile Molebatsi, saw her tweet and asked whose work it was, not knowing it was Jiyane’s. “They didn’t know I could do this. I went there as a two-in-one - as an actress and an artist,” she said. Jiyane added that, growing up in a village, there was pressure to pursue more “traditional” careers like teaching and nursing, especially because parents were not willing to pay for a degree or diploma from a creative course. Jiyane believes that if young people want to pursue a creative career, it needs to start at home with the support from their parents. “As parents we need to support our children. We need to look at our children, and if they are gifted, encourage them to find ways to live off this talent,” she said. “We cannot force our children to be doctors when they don’t want to, because, at the end of the day, they’ll drop out. We need to let our children do what they love.” @Chulu_M  The Star