Joburg mayor Herman Mashaba is preparing to take on the Gupta family at the Equality Court in a fresh racism allegation application he plans to lodge against the once powerful family. Mashaba said he wants to haul the Gupta brothers Ajay and Atul to court for racially abusing employees at Afro Worldview, formerly ANN7. He has spoken to several ANN7 employees who claim they were racially abused by the family. “Recently I engaged with past and present Gupta TV employees, who have relayed to me numerous accounts in which the station’s bosses allegedly uttered racial slurs against black employees and black South Africans in general.” The mayor said the employees wanted to remain anonymous for now, but they were willing to testify against the family in court. Mashaba said the workers indicated that working conditions at the Midrand media house were toxic. “As a black South African, especially one that has endeavoured to excel through diligence and hard work, I cannot in all good conscience sit and watch as the Guptas sought to demean our people. “South Africa’s tragic history of racism and discrimination, especially against black people, demands that we all stand up and take action in defence of our collective humanity,” Mashaba said. The mayor said he was committed to non-racialism, which is why he was the first person to lay charges against Penny Sparrow after she called black beachgoers monkeys. Sparrow has since gone into hiding. The former KwaZulu-Natal estate agent pleaded guilty to charges of crimen injuria and paid a R5 000 fine to avoid going to jail. Mashaba said it was because of this that he felt compelled to take action against the Guptas. “I intend to take on the Guptas to prove that, while they may have gotten away with insulting black people and remain unpunished due to their close proximity to former president Jacob Zuma, his son Duduzane and the ANC; I do not fear them. I will meet them with all determination and resolve necessary to restore the dignity of our black people.” The DA mayor, who is fighting the Guptas in his personal capacity, has encouraged current and former Afro Worldview employees to contact him about any racial discrimination they have suffered. Once he has collated all the information, Mashaba will approach the Equality Court. The TV station, bought by Mzwanele Manyi, is facing tough times as it is due to be removed from MultiChoice’s DStv platform next Monday, after their contract expires. MultiChoice is still looking for a new TV station that will take over the slot that Afro Worldview has occupied for over the past five years. This follows the retrenchment of workers at the Gupta-owned newspaper Afro Voice, formerly known as The New Age. The high court has granted the liquidation of the newspaper. Gupta family spokesperson Gary Naidoo did not respond to calls and text messages. Those who want to give Mashaba information about their experiences, can send their personal stories to guptatvcomplaints@gmail.com The Star