The need to equip our youth with the tools to navigate this new world is now a major challenge facing South African schools. Those who are exposed to technology in schools benefit immensely. The fact is, digital learning allows for more dynamic content and higher engagement levels - classes that better reflect the world graduates must compete in. Learners risk being left behind if they’re not plugged into this new reality. The right tool for the job is essential to enhance the digital education drive, giving learners the best chance of upping their skills in the classroom and into the future. Samsung South Africa has addressed the challenge of finding relevant technology to support children’s education with the School in a Box (SIB) solution, an educational tool built around a Samsung tablet that packages all the hardware needed to support learning in a single, comprehensive kit for students and schools. But, many schools are facing the technological revolution on the back foot. Students struggle with access to basic resources and services. The notion of technology as a solution appears far removed from ongoing challenges faced every day. However, technology can bridge divides in many new ways. Mobile technology can connect disadvantaged or rural schools to a national network that gives them an equal opportunity to excel. Technology, specifically electronic devices such as tablets, open a whole new world to learners as it gives them access to interactive learning solutions and capabilities that aren’t found in books. To bring technology to the classroom, corporate organisations need to work with government. Samsung South Africa has proven the results that can be achieved by doing so. The Samsung Smart Classroom and Digital Village initiatives have made an enormous difference in the lives of children who wouldn’t normally have access to learning about and through technology. The key to creating a sound and sustainable future for South Africa and the rest of the world is to ensure children are given the best opportunities to learn about the world around them, in a way that is relevant to today’s technology and pace. Hlubi Shivanda, director: business innovation group and corporate affairs for Samsung South Africa.