With the evolution of technology through basic necessities like navigation, booking accommodation or buying tickets for tourist attractions gadgets have now become some of the ultimate accessories to include on one’s travels. Here are some gadgets worth packing into your travel bags.  Mini tripod There has been an increase in social-media platforms becoming personal broadcasters (See Facebook Live and Instagram’s new TV feature), with many people creating visual content using their smartphones and equipment that is specifically tailored to accommodate gad- gets like GoPro cameras and smartphones. This mini tripod by Kobra Tech is an example of tripods that are made for smartphones. (See Kobra Tech flexible tripod for iPhone or Android on www.wantiall.com - R835)  The Selfie Light Pro accessory. Picture: Selfie Light   Smartphone selfie lights The Kardashians, South African musician Shekinah and other celebrities have made the famous selfie light as popular as it is, but what is interesting about the selfie light is its qualities. The selfie light (see SelfieLight Pro) offers lighting that creates the opportunity for great photos and videos in areas that have bad lighting or dark spaces. It’s a convenient product not just for selfies. (See SelfieLight Pro by www.SelfieLight.co.za - R450)   GoPro camera What is an adventure filled with adrenalin and exploration nowadays, if it’s not filmed? That’s what the culture of social media has become, with the evolution of body cameras. The GoPro Hero and Action cameras have given travellers and adventurers the opportunity to film some of their best activities as mementoes or to share with friends on social media. It also helps that some of the GoPro products are waterproof and have torch lights, capturing great footage beneath the sea and in badly-lit spaces. (See GoPro Hero 2018 camera on www.takealot.co.za - R3999) Universal 8in1 Clip On Camera Lens Kit. Picture: Banggood.com  Clip-on camera lens What could the ultimate accessory be to help turn your smartphone into a professional camera? The answer is a clip-on camera lens. A wide-angle and 60mm clip-on lens are great for expansive and close-up shots wherever you are. If investing in a real camera is not in your short-term plans, then investing in a clip-on wide angle and 60mm camera lens is the next best thing. The only downside is that some clip-on lenses can be a bit heavy, but they are worth the purchase to capture great shots. (See Universal 8in1 clip-on camera lens kit with fisheye +wide angle +macro on www.Banggood.com - R151)