Bongo Maffin member, Stoan Seate has managed to stay relevant in the entertainment industry by being the best in what he does.  The 43-year-old musician and SABC 2’s Afro Café presenter said what kept him going over the past years was staying true to himself and respecting his craft. Seate who is currently in studio with his group Bongo Maffin recording a new album said he was excited to be reunited with them.  The group which was formed in the 90s and has won several awards recently announced that they were reuniting and working on new music after years of not producing any.  Last year they were approached by Castle Lager to do a commercial and that led to them think of reuniting.  “It has been a great experience. It has been a year now since we started talking about getting together. One of the acts we did together was the Castle Lager ad that we shot. We did DSTV Delicious Festival after that.  “What we have done is that we have been selective about the kind of gigs that we do. It has been positive. We are having lots fun like we were never apart. We are in studio now. We are putting together an album.  “It's release is scheduled for early spring but it looks like it is going to be mid or late part of spring, maybe October or November,” he said.  The stylish Setswana speaking Seate is known for presenting and rapping in his language. Seate who has been a presenter of Afro Café for over 10 years said it was important for artists to express themselves in their mother tongue.  “Honestly speaking, every single artist should be expressing themselves in their mother tongue. For an artist who is born of Zulu heritage, Sesotho or Tsonga heritage to express themselves only in English, they are being dishonest. I would say they are dishonest because they are not being completely genuine,” he said.  Seate who is originally from the North West province said it was important for artists to embrace who they were and that those who still want to join the entertainment industry should find a balance between being talented and going to school.  “If you want to come to the industry and think you are talented, the minimum requirement is to really put an educational foundation. Be behind your music. If you are interested in music while you are a teenager, go to tertiary and study music, business management, brand management so that when you get into the industry you can speak the language,” Seate said.  The father of four beautiful daughters who has more than 20 years in the showbiz industry said he learned a lot of things and one of them was to “respect your craft”.  “There are a lot of lessons. Different lessons for different reasons. I would say one of the biggest lessons in the game is the constant self-improvement. Shaping your skills, you always have to look for ways to improve. Learning from more experienced peers.  “[It is important] to respect your craft, respect your audience, people who are consuming and supporting your music.  Seate said South African people were living hard lives and it was only fair that if they take their hard earned money to buy what you are selling, you make sure that you have put an effort in your craft.  Besides working on new music with his group and presenting, Seate is a DJ. You can follow him @stoanito for bookings.  @SthembisoMedia