A disturbing video showing looters carrying on stealing from a foreign owned shop as a body lies nearby has emerged on social media. The video was posted on @stolencarRSA on Wednesday morning and shows what allegedly happened in Soweto during the looting of foreign-owned shops on Wednesday. In the video, a dead body of a man in blue clothes is lying on the gravel not far from the entrance of a spaza shop. There are shoes next to the body and the pants of the dead man are pulled down. Although how he was killed is not clear, he seems to have a wound on his head. All around the body there's a lot of activity but no one is paying attention to it.  The door of the spaza shop is ajar and men, women, teenagers and young children run into it and emerge with their hands filled with goods that they had just looted. None of the looters seem to be bothered by the body lying out  there in the open. They just walk past it without even throwing a glance at it.  At some point a teenage girl, approaches from the other direction, walks very close to the body and then runs into the shop too as if she did not even see the dead man. Those that are not looting are watching scenes before them unfold and they include young children. Many people were shocked by what they saw, questioning how people could carry on looting while a person lies dead just nearby. One of the shocked ones @EagleMcshabba said: "Soweto people are bewitched....next to a dead body, disgusting hooligans." Another tweeter use @lyt_moon was equally horrified writing: "Am horrified!! How does a human continue looting and jump a dead body while at it...? Sick, sick!! while @missadatjie exclaimed:"Oh no, are there kids there looking at the body too." For others, this was a sigh of lack of humanity such as @duncanCeleQa  who asked: "What happened to humanity though." His thought were echoed by @CassiusMotena who said: "Botho bja rena bokae mara! (Where is our humanity though) A person is dead and it's as if it's an animal people just continue with their business...savage". So far four people have died since Soweto residents stormed foreign owned shops over allegations that they sell fake and expired foods. The attacks started in Soweto where three people died when violence broke out. In Tshepisong, Krugersdorp, some people tried to copy what was happening in Soweto by storming a foreign owned shop.However, a woman was killed and the looters fled.