Sisters who said their dead father's grieving partner was just one of his many lovers have been ordered to hand her £325,000 (R5.9million) by a judge. Jane Redmond and Lynn Leberknight denied that Carole Anne Taylor, 70, was due anything from their father's near £1million (R18m) fortune after he died in 2014. Although she had lived with James Redmond, a gas safety manager, the relationship was not exclusive, they claimed. They claimed that Taylor, who their father met at a jive dancing evening in Slough, Berkshire, was only one of his numerous romantic partners. However, after a court battle over his fortune, Judge Stephen Hockman QC ordered the sisters – who inherited their father's money – to pay £325,000 (R5.9m) to Taylor, saying she was his wife in all but name. The sisters were also ordered to pay her legal costs, wiping out a large part of their inheritance. The judge said their father  ‘clearly loved' Taylor, with whom he lived for seven years and who cared for him during his illness. "There was ample evidence that Mr Redmond regarded Mrs Taylor as his partner, even though she preferred to remain unmarried," he said. During the hearing of the claim at Central London County Court last year, the judge heard that Taylor was still married to her husband of 42 years when she met divorcee Redmond at Slough Irish Club. They formed a friendship, but it was not until after her divorce that she agreed to move into his home in Langley, near Slough, in 2007. Redmond died in October 2014 after a 15-year fight against prostate cancer, sparking a battle over his money. Under his will- written 20 years before the couple met- he left everything to his daughters and, after his death, Leberknight told Taylor she must leave the flat. Taylor moved out but launched a court claim for a share of Mr Redmond's estate. Judge Hockman said: "I find it improbable that Mr Redmond in the final months of his life, and in deteriorating health, chose to end a relationship which had provided him with much intimacy and support, with a woman whom he clearly loved, and who returned his affection." The claim was heard last year, but the ruling has only now been made public. Daily Mail