People buying their food from supermarkets are at prone to eating more processed food and getting fat. This is according to The International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) research which found  that  shopping  for food in supermarkets increases adult BMI by 0.64 kg/m2, contributes to eating more processed and highly processed foods and less fresh fruit and vegetables. Speaking to Health-e News, dietician Mpho Tshukudu agreed. "Supermarkets are designed to attract consumers to unhealthy and unnecessary items rather than the healthy foods they need," she said, adding that unhealthy processed foods were usually discounted more than healthy foods. According to Olivier Ecker, co-author of the study titled Supermarket Shopping and Nutritional Outcomes and senior research fellow at the IFPRI, overweight and obesity were growing health problems in many developing countries. “These results, alarming from a nutrition and health perspective, confirm that the retail environment affects people’s food choices and nutrition.”   The IFPRI research found that shopping for food in supermarkets increases adult BMI by 0.64 kg/m2. The rapid rise in people’s BMI was found to be contributing to various non-communicable diseases (NCDs), such as diabetes, hypertension, and some forms of cancer. Obesity and NCDs are associated with morbidity and mortality, lost productivity, and high healthcare costs.   The study, published in a recent edition of the journal World Development, emphasised that better understanding the nutrition effects of modernising retail environments could help to design policies aimed at reducing negative health consequences.     Even though the study did not find that supermarkets contribute to net increases in total calorie consumption, the findings revealed significant shifts in dietary composition. Supermarket shopping was found to be contributing to a sizeable decrease in energy consumption from unprocessed staples and from fresh fruits and vegetables and a significant increase in the consumption of dairy, vegetable oil, processed meat products (sausages etc.) and highly processed foods such as bread, pasta, snacks, soft drinks etc. These shifts toward processed and highly processed foods lead to less healthy diets, with higher sugar, fat, and salt contents and lower amounts of micronutrients and dietary fibres.   “Some of the effects are still relatively small, but they may increase with supermarkets further gaining in importance. The observed changes in dietary composition can also explain the increasing effect on BMI, even without a rise in total calorie consumption. The reason is that the human body requires less energy for the digestion of processed and highly processed foods,” said Ecker.   According to the IFPRI, Kenya has one of the most prospering supermarket sectors in sub-Saharan Africa. The share of grocery sales through supermarkets is about 10% at national level, but already much higher in large urban centres. A rapid growth of supermarkets is also expected in other parts of Africa. Modernising food retail environments, together with income growth and urbanisation, may also play a role in rising obesity rates because of changes in people’s diets and lifestyles. For instance, the rapid spread of supermarkets in many developing countries could affect consumer food choices and thus nutritional outcomes.   The study provides regulatory and policy recommendations to avoid undesirable diet and nutrition outcomes, including enhancing consumer awareness. “Rather than thwarting modernisation in the retail sector, policies that incentivise the sale of more healthy foods — like fruits and vegetables — in supermarkets may be more promising to promote desirable nutritional outcomes. If properly managed supermarkets can also have important positive nutrition effects,” said Ecker. – Health-e News.