The fraud and corruption case against "homemade" economist Clive Ramathibela, an ex-business editor for Afro Worldview TV channel, has been postponed to next month. Ramathibela,33, made a brief appearance at the Johannesburg Specialised Crime Court on Wednesday morning where his case was shifted to a later date to allow his lawyer to review the case docket. Ramathibela is said to have accepted about R4.4million worth of investments from five individuals who wanted his company Clivera Inc to manage their lifetime savings and pensions. He had allegedly promised to invest this money elsewhere while paying the beneficiaries a monthly "salary". However many did not get their money and started openining criminal cases early this year. His alleged scheme started in 2015, at the prime of his TV career with then ANN7 and SABC. He is out on bail of R15 000 following his arrest by the Hawks at the Tiso Blackstar offices in Parktown, Joburg, in April, where he was due for an interview to respond to allegations against his company. He had been evading arrest at the time. The Star reported last month how it was believed that Ramathibela used his public image to lure dozens of victims to invest their hard-earned money, including pensions, in Clivera. Titus Mawasha, whose father gave R880 000 to Ramathibela, took his frustrations of not getting his late father’s returns from Clivera to hellopeter.com. Mawasha said Ramathibela had personal relations with his father, but failed to return his investments upon his death. “Ramathibela-Smith has not said a single word about returning the money. The matter is with the estate attorney, and the first summons has been issued to him. My issue here is that he knew my dad personally as they went to the same Jehovah’s Witness church. During the passing of my father, Clive kept quiet about the money invested. He came with a weird story which is recorded, and makes no sense at all. It has been two years and a few months, with no feedback from him,” Mawasha wrote. He said he pleaded with Clivera’s directors to return the funds, as his family were taking financial strain. He said all the documents had been submitted to the master of the court and only Ramathibela’s portion was outstanding. “Our little brother needs access to the estate money and he is unable to do so as Mr Clive is living comfortably. Our brother and stepmother struggle to eat, get medication and clothes and all we hear from our neighbours back home is that now and then there is no electricity or food and water. They have to beg from our neighbours,” wrote Mawasha. A source close to the investigation told The Star that Ramathibela’s bank accounts were almost depleted at the time of his arrest. “He didn’t have more than R3 000 in his bank account and he told us that he had invested the money in Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates soccer clubs, but we have since learnt that he used it to run his business, pay staff salaries, rent and services. He is broke,” said the source. In April last year, the Financial Sector Regulation Authority (previously known as the Financial Services Board) withdrew Ramathibela’s licence during its investigation into his business conduct. @lindilesifile