L’vovo is staging a #TaxiIndustryAppreciationDay out in Chesterville Rank, Durban today to extend his gratitude to taxi drivers who have had a hand in promoting his music.  He said taxi drivers play his music endlessly and wanted to honour this industry that most people don’t really cherish but has done wonders to his journey and many other artists. “There hasn't been anyone who has thanked our taxi drivers. There are only complains that they drive terribly. So I have decided to dedicate a day to these people by staging this celebration because these are the very people who have taken a risk on much of our music, including Gqom, that was never understood for a while until now,” said the Iyavaya hitmaker. He adds that valuing taxi drivers goes beyond just music but reflects back on how taxis have also been the basic form of transport to get our parents to work so they can provide for their families.  “This will not be a big event. Taxi drivers are expected to stop driving to join in the celebration,” he said. Redbull is also on board, their trucks will be used for performances and DJs.  “We will braai for the drivers and had over a token of appreciation to the association.”     All L’vovo could confirm in terms of artists to perform is that there will be a lot in attendance, including some of the big Durban names.   On the music side, L’vovo is currently working on an album that he is looking to release in September. “My recent single is one of the biggest songs out there right now. The way the song just blew up was unique because I have never done any radio or media interviews to promote it. I just released it via my social media platforms and people are in love with it,” he said. Iyavaya features other heavyweights such as Dr Malinga and Professor. “Right now I am concentrating on my upcoming album that will still carry the Durban Kwaito sound. “I believe that Kwaito will never die and it represents us as South Africans, hence other  countries respect us because of our originality. With that said, I will never change my genre because I want to follow trends happening around. I know music has been evolving over the years, but my fans and followers know me for this. I choose to stick to what I am good at and do it to the best of my ability,” he adds. @AmandaMaliba