Could the fear of not getting a social grant be the reason why many women don’t include fathers’ details on their children’s birth certificates? According to some fathers, that could be the reason. This emerged during a Twitter discussion promoted by the recent Statistics SA report which revealed that 61% of children born in the country last year had no details of fathers recorded on the birth certificate. Western Cape premier Helen Zille then tweeted…”and this does not even take account of the cases where info on fathers does exist by the fathers are absent from their children's lives. All this causes more social pathologies than we can imagine”. Some of the people who responded to the tweet and the revelations from Statistics SA said the reason could be because of the social grant. Some of the fathers said they had been made to understand that the mothers of their children chose not to add their details on the birth certificate as that meant they would forfeit the social grant. One of the fathers who is not on the birth certificate, @kilopoli1 said: “My personal experience as a father... the explanation I got from mother of my child is that the nurses never told her to put my name. I found out later that the real reason was that she would have been excluded from the social grant. I support my son with R2000 a month.” Another one, @JameswaseTsomo said that was frustrating. “I'm pretty sure my son is listed here because her mother refused to add my name on his birth certificate, saying he wont qualify for child support grant. However, I am here, doing everything for my son A-Z, not even a single day seeing that grant." According to @elvisbolokang, not adding  the father’s name for the purpose of getting a grant was common practice. “Problem is the allocation of grants per every fatherless born, (that's) why the state does not encourage birth control”. On the other hand, @SaneleMchunu5 blew the lid on the practise. “I work at maternity ward. We ask the mothers and they refuse to put fathers’ name on an immunisation card of which later is being used to register the child, one of the reasons SOCIAL GRANT .”