This has put the provincial government at loggerheads with mayor Herman Mashaba, who is accusing the ANC of political interference. Uhuru Moila, Gauteng’s housing and co-operative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) MEC, last week invoked municipal legislation to launch a wide-ranging probe, focusing on suspected corruption and irregular appointments in the city of Joburg. Moila’s investigation invited the ire of Mashaba, who yesterday charged that the MEC’s probe was “motivated by politics rather than principles of good governance”. Mashaba went a step further warning Moila to “proceed with caution on this matter, because the multi-party (DA-led) government in Joburg will not stand by idly when laws are twisted to settle political scores”. Highly placed provincial sources said that Moila’s investigation will look into several allegations, including that: Mashaba exerted undue influence to give an NGO, which he is supposedly still a director of, a grant of R11million. A host of city senior managers and executives, whose names are known to The Star, were allegedly appointed irregularly. Moila also slammed Mashaba for saying that Cogta was involved in political grandstanding by launching its probe. The MEC added that he was “troubled by the incidences of maladministration and corruption, which are manifesting themselves in the public domain”, saying he was compelled by law to act when claims of maladministration and corruption surfaced. “I'm shocked that Mayor Mashaba regards informing the citizens of the city, the province and the country about alleged illegal acts as grandstanding. It is the duty of all South Africans to expose any acts of wrongdoing when there are allegations,” Moila said. Mashaba asserted that Moila’s probe was “irrational”, as a carbon-copy of allegations which the Joburg ANC had asked Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane’s office to look into. The mayor further claimed the three ANC-controlled local governments: Ekurhuleni, Merafong and Rand West - all had complaints against them, with Mashaba questioning whether similar investigations would be conducted against these municipalities. Moila said he could not speak for the public protector or the Joburg ANC. “But as the MEC for Cogta and human settlements, I am compelled to act on the claims that have surfaced, particularly Gauteng municipalities. “Since my appointment as the MEC, I have spoken out strongly against any form of corruption and maladministration. “As and when cases of corruption are brought to my attention, as the MEC I have instituted investigations,” Moila said. He had invoked provisions of Section 106 of the Municipal Systems Act to launch his probe, he said. @khayakoko88