The number of poaching incidents have decreased in the Kruger National Park and other national parks across the country despite the recent killing of two rhinos. On August 16, poachers shot and killed a while rhino at the Kruger, however, it was only discovered six days later. SANParks senior investigator in environmental investigation services, Frikkie Rossouw, said the incident occurred after a quiet month. It was only on August 22 that they discovered the rhino with it’s small calf left next to it’s mother’s carcass. “Sometimes a scene is only discovered a day or two after it has been shot,” said Rossouw. “I think this one was discovered the next day but that was over the weekend and we do not always have all of the staff together over the weekend to come and visit.” The carcass of a rhino that was killed and had it's horn sawed off at the Kruger National Park. SANParks' spokesperson Ike Phaahla added that were many aspects that come to play when a crime scene is discovered including the activity of vultures. The crime scene was near a road outside the park and Rossouw suspected that the poachers were dropped off in the evening. A small calf was found alive next to the carcass and was taken to an animal sanctuary. He could not say how old the calf was but was small enough to fit into a helicopter.  During the processing of the scene, two spent bullet casings were found. Another bullet was found inside the caucus. The horns were cut off with a knife and an axe. About 1,2 kilometers away from the crime scene was another white rhino that was shot in the same evening. Both of the incidents were suspected to have been done by the same poaching team. Those two incidents made it the fourth poaching incidents in about a week and a half in the Melalane section of the park. Rossouw added that despite the four incidents, the park had a quiet month with 23 suspects being arrested in 11 days. Members of the media were at KNP for a media trip organized by SANParks to share information on anti-poaching and other conservation efforts in the park. According to Rossouw, the number of poaching incidents have allegedly decreased in the Kruger and other national parks across the country. The 2018 statistics released have yet to be released by Environmental Affairs Minister Edna Molewa. However there has been a slight decline in rhino poaching  from 1054 in 2016 to 1028 in 2017. Rossouw attributed the decrease in incidents to successfully tracking of poachers, good sentencing.  “We have been managing it much much better than we did five years ago,” he said. @Chulu_M