After creating his dictatorial-like one-man system in Turkey, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan recently made one of his first foreign visits to South Africa to join the BRICS Summit. Seizing the opportunity, he lectured South African authorities on how to deal with the Turks fleeing his oppression and seeking shelter in South Africa. As was the case in his controversial visit to the US last year, Erdogan’s bodyguards once again attacked peaceful demonstrators who were protesting outside the Turkish Embassy in Pretoria. One of the banners in the hands of the protesters had a deeply disturbing and eye-catching phrase: Babykiller Erdogan. Just a few days after he returned to Turkey, a boat carrying refugees capsized in the Aegean Sea, killing seven people, including three babies. It wasn’t only Syrian refugees in the boat fleeing Assad’s oppression. On board there was also a Turkish family apparently from the Gülen movement, who Erdogan accuses of being behind the coup attempt of July 15, 2016. The father, along with his three babies, drowned and the only survivor was the mother, who was later taken to court for being a member of the Gülen group. The family, like tens of thousands, were fleeing from Erdogan’s oppression. The bodies of the babies were brought to Bursa, one of Turkey’s biggest cities, whose municipality is ruled by Erdogan’s party. In Turkey, the municipalities provide free funeral services. However, the Bursa mayor gave the order that no services, including a hearse to carry the babies’ bodies, were to be provided, on the grounds that they were from the Gülen movement. A few days before Erdogan’s visit to South Africa, a boat trying to pass the river Maritsa between Turkey and Greece capsized, killing four people from the same family. The father survived but the mother, her seven-year-old child and two babies drowned. Erdogan’s supporters celebrated the deaths, tweeting that the Maritsa river was the best punisher of the Gülenists. Pro-Erdogan columnists faulted the dead parents for taking their babies with them without uttering a word about the ordeal they were going through. In the wake of the controversial coup attempt, which Erdogan called “a gift from God”, the Turkish state initiated an unprecedented witch-hunt against the Gülenists. Although it seems clear that Gülenist officers, together with many others from various ideological camps, were involved in the coup, it is unclear who pushed the button and who organised the botched coup. Erdogan is not content to try only the soldiers who were involved; he has gone after every member of the Gülen movement, many of whom were as unaware as this article’s readers about the looming coup. The father who lost his life in the Aegean Sea was only a teacher at one of the schools affiliated with the Gülen movement. The day after the coup, arrest warrants were issued for thousands of judges and prosecutors, which prompted former European Parliament president Martin Schulz to say: “It seems the coup was not well prepared but the measures against it were very well organised. In the following days and months, 170 000 public officials were purged and about 60 000 people, of which some 17 000 are women, were locked behind bars. According to the Stockholm Centre for Freedom, a platform created by exiled Turkish journalists in Sweden, there are around 700 babies in Turkish prisons.” The media has been either subdued or tamed after 116 media outlets have been banned and seized by the Turkish government. And in a referendum done under the state of emergency, Erdogan reached his long-awaited goal of a presidential system that does not exist in any democratic country. He has dictatorial powers and can even appoint the judges of the Supreme Court without needing the approval of any higher authority. There are no checks and balances. It is well understood why he called the coup “a gift from God” and let it happen despite the fact that he was informed about it hours before the tanks rolled onto the streets of Istanbul. Thanks to the coup, he declared emergency rule, purged hundreds of thousands of public officials, confiscated assets to the value of $12 billion and held the controversial referendum that changed the constitutional system and made him president with unparalleled powers. It’s crystal clear that it’s not only Gülenists who are being punished. There is a comprehensive cleansing of the Turkish state and society who refuse to toe the line of the president. Erdogan sues three people daily for allegedly insulting him, and he is the most insulted president on Earth, according to figures published by the Ministry of Justice. Turkey is the largest imprisoner of journalists in the world. China comes only a distant second. Erdogan denies the country has a Kurdish problem that should be solved urgently and imprisons the Kurdish party’s leader. In the early 1990s, the great Nelson Mandela refused to receive the Atatürk award that the Turkish state was offering to world leaders. He refused because he was upset to see how the Turkish state was dealing with its Kurdish minority and ruthlessly oppressing them. He would probably refuse to shake hands with Erdogan had he been alive to have witnessed, this time, the oppression of not only Kurds but all who reject his authoritarian policies. He would also imagine how a leader would deal with dissident Turks inside the country when he cannot tolerate a peaceful demonstration just outside the Turkish Embassy in Pretoria. Selcuk Gultasli is an exiled Turkish journalist