Women in public safety face challenges of discrimination, lack of gender equality, lack of implementation of employment equality, sexual harassment and oppression almost on a daily basis. Fed up by these issues, they made their voices heard at an awareness walk on Tuesday. About 200 female members of the Johannesburg Metro Police Department (JMPD), Emergency Management Services (EMS), Disaster Management and the Licencing Department walked seven kilometres in the blazing heat from Florida Fire Station in Roodepoort to the JMPD Headquarters in Martindale. The awareness walk was part of their programme to celebrate Women’s Month. JMPD spokespersons Edna Mamonyane said the purpose of the walk was for the women of the different departments to say they want to be treated as humans beings, not just as women. She said they were equally as capable as their male counterparts. “We need to be recommended for positions at the top management,” she said. “I am a woman but I’m human. I’m a daughter. I’m a wife but above all, I’m an employee of the City of Joburg so treat me with respect,” said Mamonyane. Signs that read: “Wathinta umfazi, wathint’ imbokodo”, “Real men are feminists”, “We are not ovary-acting” and “Our bodies. Our minds. Our power” were held high while the women sang as they walked. Female JMPD officers driving motorbikes and cars led the walk and they’d occasionally stop to rev their vehicle engines, causing excitement in the crowds. Female officers on horsebacks also made an appearance in the march.  Businessman and socialite Kenny Kunene was also at the march to support the women and sponsor the walk with water from his foundation. Upon their arrival, the women handed over a memorandum of demands to the acting Chief of EMS Arthur Mqwa, JMPD Chief of Police David Tembe and MMC Corporate and Shared Services Dr Ntombi Khumalo. They trio were given 30 days to respond to the demands on the memorandum. “The challenges we face in the workplace is discrimination, lack of gender equality, lack of implementation of employment equality, sexual harassment and oppression,” said EMS station commander Vicky Venter.