It was no different at the weekend as skincare brand Dawn celebrated women with its annual #YouGotThis event held in Hyde Park, Joburg. Featuring the likes of DJ Zinhle, Doris Msibi and Pearl Modiadie, the day was filled with discussions about career, friendship and life goals. Modiadie hosted the event, which was held in association with BET under the #BlackGirlsRock movement. Speakers included educational psychologist Tshepiso Matentjie, public relations specialist Allegro Dinkwanyane and Merlene Williams. “As a beauty brand, we understand that it’s important for a woman to feel and look beautiful each and every day,” said Dawn brand manager Sphelele Mjadu. “It’s difficult for women to know where to start, even though opportunities are there. Brands like Dawn have a platform to give women the tools to fully excel and find their potential,” she said. Image consultant and personal development coach Msibi spoke about the body and self-esteem issues she had while growing up. After her mother entered her into a beauty pageant for the first time, she felt like she was doing something right. “As I stepped up onto that stage for the first time, I was doing something that didn’t feel like too much effort; it felt natural.  “I realised that I was good at something, and if I focused on the things I am good at, I could find peace with who I am.” DJ Zinhle said her road to empowerment had allowed her to grow into the space of always flowing with like-minded people. “My mom has been the biggest influence in my life but also some of my friends and some people that I haven’t met that I look up to, and they have mentored me whether they like it or not. “My mom was a teacher and a lot of things I didn’t understand growing up make a lot of sense now. “Even when I launched Fuse Academy and started DJing, I understood the opportunity that existed for me as a female at the time. “That’s the thing about mentorship and growing in an environment. “It is not just about being ready for it, but you also need to respect the opportunity. This is where we drop the ball sometimes as women because we feel entitled or are waiting for someone to grab the opportunity for us.” DJ Zinhle said she never allowed herself to take any opportunity for granted. She said she felt she was sometimes dropping the ball as a mother but has made space for forgiveness. “Work has become so busy and I often get home when she (her daughter) is sleeping. When I am with her, I am present in the moment and I am aware of what is going on.” Her book Meeting Your Po- wer, which she co-authored with Nokubonga Mbanga, talks about the power of unleashing potential and taking ownership of self. She said it was important to realise that mentorship is up to the one being mentored to see it through. “It puts the power back in your hands. It’s up to you to do the work, you are the driver of the mentorship, and sometimes people think that if someone is mentoring them, then they are driving the process. “The book is about the power of your transformation, anything you want to be. People will assist you along the way but it is your responsibility to get to the point where you feel your power.” @mane_mpi