The Eastern Cape education department has moved to stifle the re-appointment of teachers who resigned in order to access their pension funds then return to teaching. Themba Kojana, the provincial department's head, has instructed schools to get permission from him before re-appointing teachers who resigned. “Under no circumstances must educators who are returning after a break in service be allowed to assume duty without the necessary prior approval from the Head of Department,” said Kojana in a new circular. It emerged three years ago that it had become a trend among teachers to resign and to only go back to work within a few months. The Government Pensions Administration Agency revealed at the time that it had recorded 4 600 such resignations in just one month. In a bid to thwart the trend, Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga told provincial education authorities and schools to snub the resigned teachers. “In the absence of sound reason, the reappointment of persons who have resigned on reduced pension benefit shall not be deemed to be in the interest of the State,” Motshekga said at the time. Motshekga published new guidelines that ordered schools to give preference to those entering employment for the first time.  The Eastern Cape education department also complained about the trend three years ago. “It has come to the notice of the department that the number of teachers resigning to access their pensions and wanting to re-enter the profession has increased markedly and this has had a destabilising effect in our schools,” it said in a circular dispatched to schools. In his recent circular, Kojana said it ha come to his attention that teachers who resigned were being re-appointed. “It has been observed that educators who have previously exited the services of the State are being re-appointed either into substantive posts or as substitute educators. Moreover, in many instances these appointments are being converted to permanent appointments after having served for a certain period,” said Kojana. He also reminded schools of the guidelines published by Motshekga. “In considering the re-appointment of educators after a break in service, it must be noted that in terms of the relevant prescripts the Department of Education is obliged to give preference to other applicants who comply with the prescribed requirements for appointment and young entrants to the profession in particular over persons who already had the opportunity of a career in education,” said Kojana. “It has, therefore, become necessary to implement additional control measures with a view to ensuring that the Department fulfills its obligations in this regard. “It has consequently been decided that in future, the re-appointment of educators in either substantive posts or as substitute educators is to be approved by the Head of Department,” Kojana said. “This approval requirement is applicable to educators who are being considered for re-appointment within or after 12 months from their date of exit.” @BonganiNkosi87