Joburg City Power chief executive Lerato Setshedi told a media briefing yesterday that replacing the burnt transformer would cost about R30m, and after factoring in civils work, this would bring the cost up to R50m. Water and electricity supplies were cut off when an electrical transformer at the substation exploded earlier this week, causing a large cloud of smoke and power and water cuts to the Joburg south suburbs of Kibler Park, Naturena, Alveda, Rand Water, Eikenhof and Loughrin, and Johannesburg Prison. According to Joburg mayor Herman Mashaba, the water cuts affected about 4 million residents, with an impact felt as far afield as Rustenburg. Setshedi accompanied Mashaba to the Eikenhof substation where he believes there may have been deliberate acts of sabotage, which caused the explosion. “I think it’s not about the R30m or R50m in direct damage, it’s about the inconvenience to our community which expect us, as their local government, to supply them with uninterrupted water and electricity,” Mashaba said. Setshedi said City Power was currently using two transformers, which were able to supply Rand Water and the affected suburbs. “We need to ensure that the burnt transformer is removed within the next few days and replace it with a new one in case something happens to the one that is running,” he said. Mashaba said the city was treating the explosion as an act of sabotage after seeing a video that “proves” that the fire originated outside the transformer at the substation. “Until proved otherwise, this appears to be an act of sabotage to make our city ungovernable,” he added. The Hawks and the city’s group forensic and investigation service (GFIS) are investigating the cause of the explosion, to determine whether it was sabotage or not. The head of the GFIS, General Shadrack Sibiya, said the investigation was under way, with forensic analyses starting tomorrow. Setshedi said replacing the damaged transformer would depend on the Hawks’ investigation and their go-ahead. “As soon as we get permission from the experts, it will take us two days to replace this transformer,” City Power’s boss said. A reward of R100000 has been offered by the City of Joburg for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the perpetrators. The mayor has appealed to the community to assist with any information that could help the police and the municipality. @Chulu_M