With the former ANC Luthuli House staffer now charged with attempted murder along with his alleged role in a R250000 cash-in-transit heist, the case’s docket has become a contentious issue for the defence. This emerged yesterday when Errol Velile Present, who was fired by the governing party in July, appeared with his three co-accused on additional charges, which were added to the original count of robbery with aggravating circumstances. The new charges, which were announced by State prosecutor Paseka Tameli in the Roodepoort Magistrate’s Court, included the attempted murder charge as well as possession of suspected stolen vehicles for all four accused. Present is accused number four is the case, while the others are Zakhele Zondo (1), Itumeleng Manama (2) and Bheki Biyela (3). These crimes relate to an incident in July at a mall in Dobsonville, Soweto where the four are alleged to have “forcefully” robbed a G4S cash van as well as shooting and critically injuring one of the guards. But the defence lawyers asserted yesterday that they were caught unawares by the additional charges, launching into applications for magistrate John Baloyi to order the State to grant them the case docket to better prepare for the bail application. It also emerged from Present’s lawyer, Ben Modumaela, that the former ANC staffer was not positively pointed out at an identity parade conducted by the police. Modumaela drew gasps from the public gallery when he said all four of the accused were not positively identified by four witnesses during the parade. The lawyer further claimed that he didn’t know why his client was charged with possession of suspected stolen vehicles, saying Present was nabbed by police while walking in the street and nowhere near a suspected stolen car. Nthabiseng Mohomane, the legal representative for Manama, charged that the State’s opposition to handing over the docket equated to her and her client entering a fight arena while being blindfolded. “I submit that if that is not the case (being granted the docket), the accused’s right to a fair trial is infringed (upon) in terms of the constitution,” Mohomane contended. Brighton Hlayisani Taula, who also asked for the docket and relevant statements and represents both Zondo and Biyela, said the State could conceal the names and particulars of its witnesses. Taula said the witnesses’ particulars weren’t important, but rather the contents of the docket for him to thoroughly advise his clients, as well as prepare for their bail applications. Tameli countered the lawyers’ plea for the docket, saying the State would call the lead investigating officer to tell the court about the case’s contents, for the magistrate to make an informed decision on whether to grant bail. Tameli added that the State would provide the docket during trial. The case was postponed to Friday, when a decision is expected on whether the docket will be given to the defence. This case gained notoriety following a statement by Joburg mayor Herman Mashaba, where he lambasted the ANC for employing someone who allegedly broke the law. The ANC said it had fired Present for his alleged role in crime. @khayakoko88  The Star