TV presenter Zizo Tshwete talks about the future of radio broadcasting and technology and also shares her thoughts on Spotify.   Have you ever used Mxit? If yes, how was the experience? It’s been so long since I even thought about Mxit! It was easy enough to use and was the coolest thing in its time.  What was your impression when you first used WhatsApp? I immediately loved the accessibility of it to everyone - I just don’t like that if a stranger stumbles across your number because of your profile picture they can know who you are. Let’s just say I click the block button quite a bit.  Which smartphone are you using and how long have you had it? I have been using iPhones for the past number of years. I am so familiar and comfortable with its features and functions that I think I would struggle switching to another smartphone.  How often do you charge your smartphone in a week? I field calls most of the day because I am an entrepreneur and so, depending on how busy that particular day is, I plug in two or three times. One fully charged and the others to top up. I have a car charger and one that I carry in my bag with a two-pin plug so that I don’t struggle to charge should I not be in the car. I am one of those people whose phone is literally only off when I am flying. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Thuso Mbedu's tech travel essentials  Do you prefer to get your bank statements on email or postal? Definitely via email - I am so conscious of not wasting paper and printing unnecessarily. We can save more trees by being more conscious of the environment.   What are your thoughts on “tap * go” to make a payment? I don’t typically use that feature. I am still keen on punching in my code.  Where do you see the future of technology when it comes to radio broadcasting? It is not always easy to predict because the masses still listen to radio traditionally but there is a movement of streaming, doing audio bouquets, etc. For me the most important factor is just that people are listening to the platform that, in whichever way, is easiest for them to access.  Do you think that the South African technology industry is open to young start-ups and innovators? It is a slow process from my perspective, but I believe the industry is realising the importance of including young entrepreneurs and their innovations in the space more and more.  Spotify is testing a new feature to allow its free users to skip adverts on the app. Previously, free listeners on Spotify were required to wait the preset time of the advert before getting back to their music. What are your thoughts on this? I have never used Spotify. The challenge I see, in my capacity as a marketer, is that that platform would not necessarily be the best direction to advise your clients on if one of your deliverables was getting people to watch your content. It’s a gamble with the financial investment. Perhaps one would need to weigh up the number of subscribers versus free users, then make an informed conclusion.  Former president Barack Obama recently announced a production deal with Netflix in which he and the former first lady, Michelle Obama, will produce television shows and films for the streaming service. Do you think online video streaming will “kill” television? Not in the very near future in our country at least. There are still a substantial number of South Africans married to the traditional way of engaging with content.  @SthembisoMedia