“I could be doing what I am doing - acting and singing - and still have a long and successful career. But nowadays, people find it cool that celebrities are associated with the brand. I am happy to be considered,” he said. Makubalo was recently announced as the first male ambassador to sign with denim and sneakers company Soviet. “You know sometimes when people are getting big deals, I am thinking to myself, why am I not getting called? People are getting vodka deals. At the back of my mind I think about what I need to do. “Even if nothing is going wrong in your career, you think to yourself why I am not beeping on someone’s radar. And the answer to that really is that you have to wait and what is right for you will come along,” he said. Soviet managing director Caroline Hardman said the company had been waiting for years to find the right male match, and Makubalo was perfect.   “After years of success behind our ambassadorship with the Miss South Africa brand, Soviet has identified a gap in the market when marketing to our male consumers,” Hardman said. She said the actor and musician identified and resonated with the brand because he was playful and passionate. “He gets excited about the same things that we get excited about. We are looking at doing a collaboration, which is obviously something we will be going into next year, considering that he just came on board,” she said. “The relationship with Soviet started years ago. The minute I walked in the offices to see the team, I really felt that the love and the atmosphere was great.” Makubalo, 29, said he was a novice to modelling but with this partnership he was enjoying being in front of the camera as a model. “I’m not too serious, and when I walk into a place where people are just as edgy and fun as I am, I instantly get excited,” Makubalo said. He mentioned that the relationship would require him to be part of various planned activations and collaborations. Makubalo said he was never really into fashion, because he couldn’t afford it for a large part of his life. He said he was looking forward to becoming more fashion savvy with the brand. Fellow celebrities who are brand ambassadors include actor and businessman Thapelo Mokoena with German fragrance brand Tabac, and Nomzamo Mbatha with international sportswear brand Puma and skin care brand Neutrogena. @Zwane_2li2ls