Teenage pregnancy is on the rise in Mpumalanga with public healthcare facilities reporting a 78% increase in just one year. In the last year only, 5 897 under the age of 18 gave birth in the Ehlanzeni District Municipality. This was a rise from 3 082 in 2016. Gert Sibande Municipality did not fare better as well as 2 601 girls under the age of 18 bore children, a rise from 1 399 in 2016. In Nkangala Municipality, 1 517 teenagers became mothers while in the previous year it was 1 128. All this was revealed during a questions and answers session at the Mpumalanga Legislature when MEC for  Health Sasekani Manzini answered the DA's questions on the issue of teenage pregnancy. DA Mpumalanga spokesperson of Health Jane Sithole said Manzini claims that the department embarks on awareness campaigns aimed at educating communities on issues relating to sexual and reproductive health, contraception and family planning. However, it seemed those campaigns were not yielding positive result, she said. "With Mpumalanga’s ailing economy and high unemployment rate, it is clear that more needs to be done to keep learners, especially girls in school so that they can ultimately contribute constructively to the development of this province," she said. Sithole also said what was of particular concern was that the Department of Health did not have any mandatory reporting tool to report or investigate the circumstances around girls between the ages of 10 and 15 falling pregnant. By not having a system to report or investigate these pregnancies, the department could be turning a blind eye to cases of young girls being raped, she said. "While the Health Department on its own cannot curb teenage pregnancies, using the information available to her, MEC Manzini must work with the Education Department and all relevant stakeholders to educate children about the consequences of teenage pregnancy. "The sad reality is many of these pregnancies are as a result of girls being taken advantage of by older men, often called “blessers,” and these pregnancies very often result in girls dropping out of school and even being exposed to HIV/AIDS and STIs. "The DA calls on MEC Manznini and Education MEC, Sibusiso Malaza, to intensify sex education in all our schools and healthcare facilities and to partner with experts in the field to assist in disseminating the information to teenagers including boys. 