Ekurhuleni - One of the two DA ward councillor who were allegedly assaulted by police at Edenvale Police Station this month wants the police station shut down. Ward councillor Simon Lapping said the police station has a long track record of corruption and police brutality. “I have said this before, police brutality is caused by poor training and very poor leadership and lack of management skills by police management.” Lapping said he has lodged an application with the Commission of inquiry to have the station shut down. “All the police at the station must be transferred. New ones that are properly trained need to be brought in and the station can be properly reopened,” Lapping said. “The track record of thuggery associated with this police station is too much and the community needs a fresh start,” he said. Earlier this month Lapping and another DA ward councillor, Tracy Lourenco, were at the police station assisting community members to open a case before they were allegedly assaulted, then arrested. “The officers attacked Lourenco when she started filming them and threw her in a cell,” said Lapping. “They then jumped me and also threw me in a cell.” Lourenco said she has a chipped bone and a detached ligament and is walking with crutches after the assault. Her daughter and sister, who were with her at the police station, were also injured and covered in bruises, Lourenco said. For six hours Lapping with Lourenco, her daughter and sister were all kept in one cell. Gauteng SAPS spokesperson Lt Col Kay Makhubela said the councillors were arrested for assaulting police officers and interfering in police business. They were detained on August 10 and released six hours later at around 1am the following day. Lapping said cases have been opened against the police with the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid). Among the charges against police are assault, crimen injuria, defeating the ends of justice, tempering with evidence and theft, as Lapping said police took Lourenco's cellphone and when they returned it, video footage was deleted. Lapping and Lourenco appeared at the Edenvale magistrate court on August 14 and their case was postponed to September 6. The Star