The Star spoke to the chief marketing officer at Samsung South Africa, Justin Hume, about Samsung Pay.  What is Samsung Pay? It is a convenient and simple way to make secure mobile payments with compatible Samsung Galaxy smartphones. How does it work? Samsung Pay uses proprietary magnetic secure transmission (MST) and near field communication (NFC) technologies to make contactless mobile payments. MST allows virtually any non-contactless payment terminal to become a contactless payment terminal, allowing you to make a secure contactless payment virtually anywhere. It is as simple as swiping up on the device, authenticating via fingerprint, iris scan or PIN, and tapping on the payment terminal to make the secure transaction. Who can access Samsung Pay and where can it be found? Samsung Pay is now available on Galaxy Note 9, Galaxy S9/S9+, Galaxy S8/S8+, Galaxy S7/S7 edge, Galaxy Note 8 and Galaxy A8. Galaxy A7 (2017), Galaxy A5 (2017) will be supported towards the end of this month. If you have a supported Absa credit, cheque or debit card from Visa and Mastercard or a Standard Bank credit or cheque card from Mastercard during the early access period you will be able to enrol your payment card and make payments. Anyone else with a compatible device will be able to install the Samsung Pay application and enjoy the user interface and enrol loyalty cards only. Why did Samsung think it was important to start Samsung pay? Samsung has been a technology leader for many years. Nowadays it is not just about hardware specs, but what can my mobile device do to enrich and simplify my life. Samsung Pay is one of these innovative solutions to simplify your life by making it possible to make secure mobile payments at virtually any retail store, without having to look for any of your payment cards. Which banks did Samsung partner with on Samsung Pay? Absa credit, cheque or debit card from Visa and Mastercard, Standard Bank credit or cheque cards from Mastercard, Avios credit cards, British Airways credit cards and Virgin Money cards. More banks are set to follow. What security features does it have? With having implemented multilayer security which includes Samsung Knox, tokenisation by Visa and Mastercard and biometric authentication, which includes fingerprint, PIN or iris scan, can be used to authenticate every transaction. When you add a bank card to Samsung Pay, a device-specific digital card number that is completely different to your actual card number is generated by Visa or Mastercard through tokenisation that represents your physical card. YOU MAY LIKE THIS: Technology transforms doing business The digital card is stored in a secure environment using Samsung Knox technology to protect your payment information. Your physical card details are not stored by Samsung Pay. This means that every time you make a Samsung Pay transaction your physical card information is never used. The Samsung Pay app verifies your identity with your iris, fingerprint or four-digit Samsung Pay specific PIN to ensure that each payment is authorised by you. Where do you see IT in five years? Samsung Pay will continue to evolve and expand with new features and functionality, so watch this space.Visit https://www.samsung.com/global/galaxy/samsung-pay/ to know more about Samsung Pay @SthembisoSithole