When EFF’s deputy president, Floyd Shivambu, found himself on the wrong side of the law for speeding, he just added himself to a long list of celebrities with a penchant for life on the fast lane. The 35 year old man was arrested in Winburg, Free State, on Sunday morning after he was caught allegedly doing 182km/h on a 120km/h zone. Head of communications for Roads and Transport in the province, Hillary Mophethe, confirmed the arrest and said that Shivambu was travelling from Gauteng to the Free State at the time. "He was alone in the car. After being caught he was taken to the cells and his car was later impounded. It was later given back to him after he was released on bail," she said. However, before Shivambu, there were other well known South Africans who locked horns with the state over their inability t stick to the speed limit. Sbusiso Dj Sbu Leope When it comes traffic related incidents, DJ Sbu is a serial offender. In 2007 he was nabbed going at 257km/h in a silver Audi TT that the car company had lent him. However, Audi took back the car a week after the arrest, saying they didn’t condone reckless driving. DJ Sbu was fined R7 000 and also handed a nine-month sentence which was suspended for three years. Then in 2014 he was again arrested after his Range Rover was found to ave been going at 176km/h in a 120km/h zone on the N1. The following year in 2015 he was arrested along Main Reef Road in Randfontein for allegedly driving drunk. Gareth Cliff  The former 5Fm DJ is another one who had to deal with the embarrassment of being caught breaking the law when he was arrested for speeding in 2015. Cliff, who launched his online radio, CliffCentral in 2014, was arrested on March 6 2015 driving at 182 km/h in a 120km/h zone on the R21 in Lyttelton, near Pretoria. Steve Hofmeyer The Afrikaans singer who has become more popular for his political activism and controversial Twitter posts sped his way into hot water when he was fined R10 000 in 2013 for speeding in Bronkhorstspruit. This was after he was caught going at 169km/h in an 80km/h zone. Brilliant Khuzwayo In 2015, the goalkeeper found himself on the other side of the law when he rushed home to see his family only to clock 166km/h near Ballito in KwaZulu Natal. Brighton Mhlongo It’s not only his hands which seem to have a good grip that ensure that competitors don't score but it seems as if Chippa United’s goalkeeper Brighton Mhongo’s right foot has a good grip on the pedal too. The 27 year old athlete was arrested in 2016 for doing 173km/h in a 120km/h zone on the Golden Highway. At the time of the arrest, Mhlongo was rushing to a family meeting to discuss the final details of his wedding that was to take place that weekend. Itumeleng Khune Kaizer Chief’s goalkeeper Itumeleng Khune had to publicly apologise after he was caught doing 173km/h in a 120km/h zone in Centurion. At the time of the incident, Khune was driving a sponsored Nissan Juke. 