Johannesburg - A suspected fugitive charged with swindling an auctioneer out of goods worth R721 000 – including seven Rolex watches – was dealt a blow when the court rejected her guilty plea. Elizabeth Nyathi, 53, the former deputy president of Zimbabwe’s Affirmative Action Group (AAG), left the Johannesburg Specialised Crime Court on Wednesday a defeated woman as she walked along the passage to the holding cells with her shoulders slumped, while surrounded by family. In her statement, read out in court by her legal representative Bartho van Tonder, Nyathi blamed her business partner and cousin Givemore Karambamuchero for issuing her with fraudulent proof of payments, which she submitted to Old Johannesburg Warehouse Auctioneers (OJWA) when she purchased 147 goods. The transactions, which included diamond and gold rings, a Gucci bag valued at R10 500 and a Royal Albert dinner set worth R10 000, were made over four months between January and April. She and Karambamuchero allegedly ran a shop in Craighall Park, where they resold goods bought from auctions. “Having never personally had the skill or harboured much technical proficiency as an IT professional, Mr Karambamuchero assisted me with the running of the administrative elements of the business with specific focus on electronic and technological optimisation,” read her statement. She added that Karambamuchero would make electronic payments on her behalf and later took over the business’s financial affairs. He would send her proof of payments via email or WhatsApp, she claimed. This arrangement continued with her auction purchases, she said. “When the proof of payments were thus received by me, I did not realise that they were not genuine proof of payments, as I would have never had been able to create such documents. "When I was arrested I confronted Mr Karambamuchero on the phone (in the presence of the complainants) and he admitted that the proof of payments were not genuine. "He offered to meet us and bring cash for the partial settlement of the amounts owing. Mr Karambamuchero did not arrive and I have not seen him since," she added. Prosecutor Richard Chabalala argued that the accused had previously claimed that she did not personally submit the fraudulent documents to the auctioneer. Magistrate Benita Oswell rejected Nyathi’s guilty plea, saying the accused needed to admit to all the aspects of the case against her. The case is set to go to trial next month, and if she is found guilty, she could face a lengthy sentence. Ahead of her appearance on Wednesday, Nyathi changed lawyers three times. Van Tonder had initially represented her when she pleaded guilty from the outset.She's also wanted for alleged theft in her home country. The Star