The pair are part of the T Musicman and Standard Bank Joy of Jazz Women’s HeArt picnic that will be hosting women in music, media and the arts. Queen Choco (Wanda Baloyi) and Madumo have been part of the Joy of Jazz family for a number of years. Baloyi said being part of initiatives like Jazz Cares gave her access to an even larger audience. “It is so touching and beautiful, and it makes you feel so revived to perform for people who are not able to attend the main events. It is bigger than performing on big stages. Those are some of the things that touch me and highlight my journey through my career.”  This Women’s Day event, Baloyi said, was a long time coming. “It is something we really need. Women are going through so much We need more events that allow us to encourage, support, celebrate and motivate each other as women. For me to be in the mix of such amazing people is a beautiful thing, and the celebrations should be every day.” Baloyi’s alias/alter-ego is Queen Choco - a powerhouse DJ. For the event on Saturday, she will be playing for all the females in attendance and having a good time. “This should become a lifestyle and a habit, where we respect and support each other. We need to create a culture where every person you interact with, you should interact with respect “My wish for this month is for women to be able to interact more often. I’m blessed to be surrounded by amazing and phenomenal women as family, friends and colleagues and just the people I meet. “What you do is what you get. If we can feed off much more positive energy, not just between women but between people. And if we can spread that kind of attitude every day, then we are working towards a better space,” she said.  Madumo will also be on the decks on Saturday, playing to the audience. Her love for jazz comes from her parents, who did not allow any other music genre to be played in the household. “But I have no regrets at all; it became a great foundation for other types of music that I enjoy today. But jazz is first in my life.” Her relationship with T Musicman stemmed from the fact that they’re all promoting the jazz genre on their platforms and the platforms they have access to. “There is a synergy in the things we do together,” she said. “Being proudly bold women makes all the difference. “Women can do so much with the little we are given. The fact that we are caring and loving creatures; if we were allowed to rule the world, we would be talking about a different place. ALSO READ: Joy of Jazz star line-up “And the reason we aren’t being allowed to is because of the recognition of our strength and power. It happens in various sectors of society, where those who have power make a concerted effort to ensure that those with potential don’t exercise that power. It diminishes the power of others, and women are not like that. “Even worse, it creates conflict among women to disempower them, and that is happening, because that makes us weaker when we are not united, and then we are easier to control.” Baloyi chooses to love every part of herself, every day. “There are so many beautiful things about being a woman. I love my body, I look at myself and I see a beautifully created and curvy woman. I love my strength, I love how we overcome so many situations and persevere to do better.” The Women’s HeArt picnic takes place on Saturday at Constitution Hill and also features the likes of Dudu Makhoba, Nombulelo Maqutuka, Nokukhanya Dlamini, Lindiwe Maxolo and Nomfundo Xaluva. @mane_mpi