The shoreline, a state-owned portion of land that forms part of Hartbeespoort Dam, is said to have sparked racial tension between black and white community members who reside in the tourist town near Brits. It’s alleged that the white residents, who are alleged to have been illegally using the piece of land for years without government leases, are blocking other races from accessing it. National Arts Council chairperson and lawyer Hartley Sandy Ngoato has opened a case of assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm after he was allegedly assaulted by four men suspected to be linked to a group challenging the leasing of the land to black people through the courts. Ngoato was left with injuries to his head and arms. Pictures on social media show the lawyer sitting on a chair with a towel soaked in blood, with his face swollen. Ngoato, who lives in the area, had just finished entertaining one of his friends on his boat on Sunday. While pulling the boat out of the water, a man known to him knocked on his car window. The man had been with three other friends, but was alone when he knocked on the window. “He started banging on my window, so I opened the door to ask what the problem was. He began shouting that ‘k*****s must go away because they think they own everything’. He accused me of trying to run over his kids with a car. “As I was pulling up my handbrake, he hit me on the head with a hard object, and I fell. He held my head and banged it to the ground several times. Three other burly white men came and encouraged him,” said Ngoato. After managing to get back to his feet, Ngoato rushed to his car to get a wheel spanner and went back to the man who had assaulted him. The other three men ran away. “While I was fighting back, a group of about 25 other white men came and tried to take the spanner away from me. I found out later that I had actually walked into a ‘lions’ den’ because all of them had been attending a fundraising event to fund their application to oppose a lease given to the only black family in the area,” said Ngoato. Police were called and a case of assault was opened against his attacker, who appeared in court on Monday. Ngoato accused the police of giving the suspect preferential treatment by locking him up in a “comfortable” holding cell. However, Hartbeespoort Dam police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Amanda Funani said the 35-year-old man was put in a community service centre because he had injuries. “I reject that claim. He had to be taken to hospital. We placed him in a normal holding cell once he returned from the hospital the same night. He is facing a charge of assault and is currently out on R1500 bail. He has also opened a counter-charge of assault,” said Funani. Mmeli Mdluli, a resident who has applied twice to lease land for recreational use, said it was unfair that some people felt entitled to that land when nobody was occupying it legally. A document from the Department of Water and Sanitation (DWS) seen by The Star showed that one applicant out of 51 residents had received approval to occupy the land, while 44 had taken illegal occupation. Only 18 people applied and had been waiting for the outcome of their applications. “This land is used only for recreational purposes like picnics, at a fee. It is a prime spot and white people have monopolised it and are thriving on it. We always thought it was private land until 2012, when I learnt that it belonged to the state. I was the first black person to apply in 2012, but I have not been successful. The only black family to have been granted occupation there has been receiving threats,” said Mdluli. Although DWS spokesperson Sputnik Ratau asked to be given more time to respond to the claims, The Star understands that they have already engaged with the community and have identified environmentally sensitive areas around the dam. The department is also working towards a public- private partnership, but the process has not yet commenced. DA ward councillor Maritza du Plessis said she heard about Sunday’s incident and did not want to be drawn into it or the lease challenges at the shoreline. “I know people have been upset and unhappy about how these applications have been handled. But DWS would be better placed to comment on that,” said Du Plessis. @lindilesifile