The swimming season is officially upon us and Joburgers fancying a dip in the pool to cool off can do so at the City of Joburg's 48 swimming pools. The City has 54 pools spread across different regions and only six of them will still be closed off to the public as they're still undergoing maintenance. MMC for Community Development in the City of Joburg, Nonhlanhla Sifumba said she was delighted that there will be a swimming pool in all the regions of the City. Thought it was unfortunate that some pools will not open at the start of the swimming season, she said, they were working tirelessly to ensure they start working at the earliest time possible. "My sincere apologies to those residents whose pools will not open as anticipated. The City will be sure to update the affected communities regularly," she said. While swimming is fun, Sifumba also stressed the importance of the safety of all those who will be visiting the City's pools. "The safety of our bathers and residents in general is of paramount importance to us as the City, therefore we are pleading with parents and caregivers to ensure that their little ones are safe at all times while enjoying the use of the pools. This can be achieved through swimming lessons, which are offered through different programmes such as Learn-To-Swim in some of the community pools. Information on where these programmes are run is readily available from the Department of Sport and Recreation. "As much as the City wants its citizens to have a great time in the City pools, bathers and visitors to the pools are urged to consider safety measures which include among others: no diving, no pushing, no running, no glasses in pool or deck areas, no alcohol, and smoking of narcotics. This is to ensure a positive experience for all the users of the pools. We will be monitoring the adherence to the rules strictly, and those that violate them will not be allowed in our swimming pools”. The normal swimming pool hours are from Monday to Friday, 10am to 6pm- 18:00 and Saturday to Sunday from 10am - 5pm. Tariffs range from R5 to R10. "The operating hours and tariffs have been structured to ensure access for all the residents of the City who do not have the luxury of swimming pools in their yards or complexes. This is in response to the pro-poor development agenda of the City". The 48 swimming pools that will be opened on the September 1 are Rabie Ridge; Blairgowrie; Brixton; Coronationville; Kensington B; Linden; Newclare; Ochse Square; Riverlea; Robin Hills; Roosevelt Park; Vrededorp; Verity Park; Windsor East; Windsor West; Davidsonville; Florida Lake; Florida North; Little Falls; Diepkloof; Dobsonville; Jabavu; Meadowlands; Moletsane; Noordgesig; Senoane; Pimville; Power Park; East Bank; Sydenham; Zoo Lake; Ellis Park; Forest Hill; Hofland Park; Malvern; Moffat Park; Southern Suburbs; Turffontein; Yeoville; Lenasia Ext 2; Lenasia Ext 10; Orange Farm; Eldorado Park Ext 4; Eldorado Park Ext 9; Eldorado Park Proper; Ennerdale; Lenasia Ext 5 and  Lenasia South. Sifumba was on Saturday expected to do an oversight tour of the Noordgesig, then East Bank and Southern Suburbs pools at 11am to engage with the swimmers and join in the fun. Some pools which were expected to open later in the year were Roodepoort and Orlando swimming pools on October 1 while Crown Gardens and Pioneer Park were to open two months later on December 1. "Paterson Park will not open for the 2018 swimming season as it is being upgraded from a baby sized pool to a normal sized pool to respond to the needs of the community in the area. Rhodes Park will not be opened as it needs major repairs that will require a longer period. "Mayfair pool will also not be opened as it was vandalized beyond repair, and needs extensive funding to replace the shell of the pool. This is the regrettable and sad consequence of certain members of the community who vandalize City property to the detriment and the denial of services of other residents," Sifumba said.  For more information regarding City of Joburg Swimming Pools, please visit www.joburg.org.za or follow on Twitter @CojCommunityDev and #JoburgPools or contact the City of Johannesburg Sport and Recreation office at 011 404 5014 during business hours. 