Duduzane Zuma’s prosecution over the deaths of two people in a car accident is just a politically motivated ploy by those trying to get to his father through him. In fact, the way things are, it’s unlikely that he will be afforded a fair trial. This was the view of Ray Henning, Duduzane's acting spokesperson and one of the conveners of Freedom for Duduzane Zuma. It was expected that Duduzane’s supporters would gather at the Randburg Magistrate’s Court where former president Jacob Zuma’s son was to appear for two counts of culpable homicide. Duduzane was driving on on a rainy night of February 1 2014 when his Porsche rear-ended Jabulani Vusi Dlamini's minibus taxi around 10pm on the M1. Zimbabwean national Phumzile Dube was killed instantly while three others were injured. Another passenger, Nankie Mashaba, died in hospital. Duduzane had said he had lost control of his Porsche after it hit a puddle. It spun and hit the back of the taxi, coming to a standstill facing oncoming traffic, he said. An inquest later revealed that Duduzane had been negligent but the National Prosecuting Authority declined to prosecute, citing insufficient evidence. This resulted in AfriForum pursuing to prosecute Duduzane privately. Afriforum’s advocate Gerrie Nel applied for a certificate of non prosecution from the NPA in October last year, to enable him to privately prosecute Duduzane on behalf of the Dube family. However, the National Prosecuting Authority made a u-turn early this year and announced that it would prosecute. Speaking to The Star on THursday ahed of teh court appearance,  Henning said the NPA had “struck the matter off the roll” stating that therewas no evidence. However, they reinbut hd reinstated them because of AfriForum. “We are tired of divisions pushed by AfriForum. The case was struck off the roll but they took it back bu we know they did that because they are trying to fight Jacob Zuma through Duduzane. “This case is politically motivated, the AfriForum is trying to get to his family.  What we are witnessing is the brutality of the White Monopoly Capital; it’s a reflection of how we were treated under racial oppression," he said. Henning also accused AfriForum of knowing that corruption charges they want to stick on former president Zuma will not stick hence they are going for his son. “We doubt there will even be a fair trial,” Henning said. However, AfriForum’s Ernst Roest rubbished Henning’s claims that the organisation was trying to get to Zuma through his son, branding the accusation as “ridiculous”. He said a court process had found that Zuma had been negligent hence he was now being prosecuted. If Hennning has a problem with the prosecution he must take it up with court, Roets said. “That is ridiculous; this is not about Jacob Zuma. We got involved in this case because the family contacted us and asked us to be involved. The fact is that we are involved now because the criminal justice is failing. Duduzane should have been prosecuted and we believe he was not because he's the former president’s son. “Duduzane is being prosecuted because he was involved in an accident that led to the deaths of people.  If they (Henning and other supporters of Duduzane) have a problem with that, they must take it up with court.” 