On Monday, the land owners of the Alexandra Property Owner’s Rights (Apor) and the Alexandra Land and Property Owners’ Association (Alpoa) took to the streets to protest outside the ANC headquarters - Luthuli House - in the Joburg CBD. The property owners in 2005 obtained a court interdict stopping any infrastructure development in the old section of the township. Through this they stopped many developmental projects, including new roads which were supposed to run through their properties during the Alexandra Renewal Programme. In 2016, a R2billion collective claims agreement was reached between the disgruntled Alexandra property owners, the City of Joburg and the Gauteng Human Settlements Department. They were promised a number of compensatory options, including full restoration and financial compensation, none of which materialised. Apor chairperson Vakele Richard Mbalukwana said “We thought we would finally receive our title deeds and we are devastated and angry that absolutely nothing has happened since the agreement was signed in good faith in 2016. “We are taking action to implore the ANC and the government to listen and act.” Alexandra in 1912 was one of the few townships where black people could own land. Many purchased the land from farm owner, Herbert Papenfus. His wife’s name was Alexandra, after whom the area was named. The apartheid government expropriated all privately-owned black land in Alex in 1958 to relocate all the residents to a new area, which eventually did not happen. But the landowners became city council tenants. Today all former owners, and their descendants, remain tenants. The Land Claims Commission paid each claimant R50000 in 2000, supposedly in full settlement. Claimants who signed the contracts, however, have since said they have not accepted this payment as a resolution, stating this was only compensation for lost rent revenue and that land claims were still to be resolved. “A simple and easy solution would have been to restore land confiscated at the end of apartheid. Alex owners are clear victims who held undisputed titles and no willing-buyer willing-seller negotiation was required, since the government took over the disputed land. “However, the fact that the tenants on most of these properties outnumber the dispossessed owners, by almost four-to-one, brought political considerations in terms of votes into play. “After the expropriation, the shack-dwelling tenants stopped paying rent, because the City of Joburg also treated the dispossessed owners as mere tenants. “If the properties were handed back to the rightful owners, the shack dwelling tenants would have to start paying rent or face eviction,” Mbalukwana said.