JOHANNESBURG - As the country celebrates Women's Month, a 60-year-old woman is nursing head injuries after being hit with a brick by a 25-year-old woman. To add insult to injury, police have closed the case that the elderly woman opened, saying they can't find the suspect, Claudia Mooloo. This was despite the fact that they had accompanied the victim to the perpetrator's house but never arrested her as she locked herself in the house and claimed that she could not find the key. The incident occurred on Monday, July 30 at Tinties, a pub in Naturena, south of Joburg. Hlaulane Chauke was manning the toilets at the pub when the incident occurred. “It was Monday afternoon and the lady first came to me around 2 pm. She demanded pap and I ignored her because I work at the toilets not at the food section. "She left and came back at after 6 pm with two other guys who I presume were her brothers. She then got aggressive and started pointing at me. The two guys she was with warned her to stop being so vile and rude to an elderly lady,” said Chauke. "She started saying things like 'I wanna kill this skepsel (referring to me) and I wanna make sure she sleeps in a mortuary tonight. Next thing I knew she pulled the lady I was sitting next to off her chair and she pushed me against the door of the male toilets,” she said. Chauke fell down and as she was trying to get up and pick up her hat, Mooloo already had a brick in her hand. As she looked up, she said, Mooloo hit her on the head with a brick. When The Star approached Mooloo, she blamed the attack on her bipolar disorder. She also said she could not recall hitting the 60-year-old nor what led to the altercation. The 25-year-old woman said she was sorry about the incident and was going to compensate Chauke for her injuries and pain caused. “I sincerely apologise for what happened. I have not been working since February and as soon as my UIF payment comes I will pay her.  I promise I will pay for anything she needs. I have been bipolar my whole life," she said. After the attack, Chauke's employer rushed her to Lilian Ngoyi Clinic. She said while she arrived there at 6.30pm, she was only attended to at 10 pm. "The doctor who treated me did not even clean or numb my wound but just stitched me up just as I came,” she added. Chauke complained about the quality of care she received at the clinic, saying when she took the stitches off on Friday, puss was still oozing out. The grandmother of two said police instructed her to take a picture of her perpetrator so they could track her down. “How can you take pictures of someone who tried to kill you? Won’t that person finish you off?” Chauke asked. Chauke opened a case at the Mondeor Police Station and claimed that after the incident, police accompanied her to Mooloo's house. However, she said, the visit was not successful because when they arrived at the house, Mooloo she locked herself inside, claiming that she could not find the key. Police spokesperson Constable Moloko Kgatla confirmed that a case of assault had been opened but it was closed soon afterwards. “The docket has been closed. This is because police cannot find the suspect. It has been classified as "undetected,"  said Kgatla. @Siphumelele_k 