This could see up to 2.5 tons of rotting refuse a week piling up in some suburbs of Soweto. It has sparked fears of not only a health hazard, but rat infestations and fires. The affected suburbs include Diepkloof, Orlando East, Orlando West, Dube, Meadowlands, Noordgesig, Pennyville, Klipspruit, Motsoaledi, Pimville, Kliptown, Senaoane, Dlamini, Moroka, Mofolo South, Mofolo North, Mofolo Central, Protea Glen, Zondi, Jabavu, Central Western Jabavu, Jabulani, Dobsonville, Protea Glenridge, Chiawelo, Emndeni, Phiri, Mapetla, Slovoville, Greenvillage, Longtill, Sgodiphola and Lefhureng. Pikitup spokesperson Muzi Mkhwanazi said residents in these areas were being advised to dispose of their waste at Pikitup’s garden refuse sites. “Uncollected waste has health and environmental implications. It can also lead to the affected areas being infested by rats, which spread disease,” he warned. “It can pollute the water, while dangerous items such as broken glass, razor blades, needles and other healthcare waste pose a risk of injury or poisoning, particularly to children and people engaged in waste sorting and handling. “Burning waste on the disposal sites can also cause major air pollution and an increase in gas emissions.” Mkhwanazi said besides the effect on human health and respiratory diseases, there was the risk of fire that could spread to adjacent properties. Collection of refuse has been disrupted across the city over the past few months, following the termination by the DA-led administration last year of the previous Jozi@Work project, initiated by the former ANC-led administration as a job-creation project which saw workers employed on three-monthly contracts. After meetings with the unions in April, the City of Joburg hired 1400 of the total 3000 former employees on a permanent basis, with their salaries increasing from R2200 to R6000 per month. The protesters are the workers who were not given jobs. The situation is so bad that Joburg metro police department (JMPD) officers have to accompany refuse removal trucks to some suburbs. Over the past few days, the protesters have not only been picketing outside Pikitup’s depots, but also stoning and burning the utility’s trucks. Mkhwanazi said it was regrettable that the city has had to suspend services due to its staff “being threatened with violence, putting their lives at risk, and being unable to leave the premises at certain depots in the mornings”. Pikitup had raised its concerns with the political principals and sought assistance from the JMPD and the police, but despite this, the situation continued unabated, he added. A Pikitup truck was set alight in Diepkloof and another stoned and damaged in the same area on Friday. Pikitup managing director Lungile Dhlamini advised the managers at the affected depots yesterday that it would be irresponsible to allow their staff members to work under such conditions, as their safety could not be guaranteed until a political solution was found. “The nature and tone of the issues raised by the protesters are outside of the entity’s mandate, Pikitup implements political decisions and board resolutions, and doesn’t formulate policy. “Stakeholders who have objections to the insourcing project should direct and raise their concerns at the appropriate levels with the mayor, speaker and member of the mayoral committee offices,” Dhlamini pointed out. Earlier this month, the unemployed former workers circulated a letter to residents stating that the people hired “had been imported from other provinces, mostly the Eastern Cape and Umzimkhulu in KwaZulu-Natal”. They encouraged people to continue protesting. The Jozi@Work contract was terminated after the city said it had discovered that middlemen or agents were being given hundreds of thousands of rand to hire the workers, while they could have been hired directly by the city. @annacox