 TS: Have you ever attended a launch of a new smartphone? KT: Absolutely. When I received an email and a call from Sony Xperia South Africa telling me that the launch of this new smartphone would give me the world of Xperia to explore their new smartphones, Sony PlayStation VR and the incredible Xperia Touch, how could I miss such.  TS: If you were to organise a launch of a new smartphone, which digital elements would you like the launch to have? KT: I’ve always gone to smartphone launches and wished they had a digital element purely focused on me “the consumer” to understand the camera jargon and the smartphone they want us to buy. Let’s be honest, we get bombarded with so many numbers and specifics and I know half of us attending are there to find out if the camera specifications are better than the one I have or the next new smartphone launching. I read the megapixel at the launch and I say: “Wow, this is amazing. It’s higher than last year, this camera is fantastic.” With that said, this leads to me leaving a smartphone launch having no idea what elements this phone has and its capabilities.  TS: Name two things that you would like smartphones to have in the near future? KT: This is such a tricky question based on how smartphones are always evolving and how I still learn new things about my phone every day. But, let’s be honest, the screen is the point of interface, the flagship of every smartphone and all I want is a screen that’s resilient enough not to CRACK when I drop it and a “smaller" handset that fits within my palm or pocket. Oh yes, and one more, a smartphone that learns who I am, my habits, the kind of music I listen to, etc.  TS: What are your thoughts on audio books? KT: The last time I tried listening via an audio book was back in my matric year and, yes, I enjoyed the experience for that time when I had brainpower, but couldn’t hold a book. That was my first and last time and I say this because I don’t think I retain as much that way, plus I get distracted with other things so easily. The emotional fulfilment for me doesn’t hit the sweet spot as well through sound.  TS: What are some of the key digital features that you think smart TVs should have? KT: HANDS DOWN Without internet connectivity the best that a smart TV can ever hope to be is a SCT (slightly clever TV). Smart TVs need internet access in order to connect to video and audio online streaming services like my favourite moments with my bae when we just “Netflix and chill”. I think another key digital feature would be the OS (operating system), which is what gives a smart TV the ability to do more than just display an image on the screen. A smart TV is a jumbo-size smartphone, right? And finally the ability for the smart TV to run dedicated apps that are used to stream media and other things.  TS: How often do you use a navigator or Google Maps on your smartphone? KT: Not a day goes by without me being navigated by “Aus Jackie”.  TS: How long have you been a Sony ambassador and how has the experience been? KT: I’ve been so fortunate to be part of the Sony Xperia South Africa family since 2017. From the moment they delivered the new Xperia XA1 Ultra phone to me as a gift, to the brand asking me where I’d love to travel to if I could and them blessing me with a first-time experience to not only travel outside South Africa for the first time, but to fly to Ukraine to watch the UEFA Champions League Final 2018 through the Sony lens. It’s more than just being hand-delivered Sony phones to experience, but an honour to truly experience Xperia smartphones filled with Sony’s innovative technologies, the phenomenal display, high-resolution audio and PS4 Remote Play. It’s a phone that comfortably filters all the noise for me to find the perfect Xperiance that suits me.  TS: What are your thoughts in general about Sony products? KT: Sony has had a long history of firsts. First portable cassette player, the iconic Walkman, in 1979, the first commercial CD player in 1982, the MiniDisc in 1992, and the Blu-Ray recorder in 2003, the list goes on. From their emergence of smartphones, TV tech, Sony electronics, Sony’s innovative journey in camera design and technology, to its PlayStation gaming division and VR. Sony has finally latched on to important trends of modern smartphone design and the Xperia XZ2 is by far the best phone Sony has made thus far.  TS: How often do you delete emails on your device/s? KT: Every day. Many of my emails have no value over time and, realistically, I wouldn’t keep all the physical mail I’ve received in real life. I don’t see why I should be hoarding my emails.  TS: Do you have wi-fi in your place? KT: No, I’m searching for the best deal and need a little help with finding the best wi-fi package (your navigation would be appreciated).  TS: Uber has partnered with a Woolworths franchisee in Johannesburg to allow grocery delivery to residents in the Sandton suburbs of Edenburg, Bryanston and Conrad Drive. What are your thoughts on this? It’s the way of the future, Uber Eats was a novelty and the next step is having your groceries delivered to you. Uber saw a gap in the marketplace and the benefits they are already gaining from Uber Eats. I appreciate that Uber is evolving, but can we talk about the adjusted price when ordering items 7.5% is heavy. Each to their own I believe seeing scooters zipping around complexes with groceries will be the order of the day every day. @SthembisoMedia