Taking gruesome videos and putting them on social media has once again come under scrutiny following a suicide that was captured on a video that was later widely circulated. On Saturday, a Central University of Technology student, Lerothodi Mokati, committed suicide by jumping off Loch Logan Waterfront mall in Bloemfontein as people watched and recorded the incident. In the video, the person recording the incident is speaking and nearby a hissing sounds from what sounds like a walkie talkie says: “I said attend to that person, attend to that person". A few second later Mokati approaches from the roof of the building. He then starts running towards the edge and loud screams of people who are also watching can be heard. Mokati does not break his run and he jumps off the building, landing on the water below, making a big splash. As soon as he lands in the water, the person taking the video can be heard saying: “Amen, amen...I did say that if they get closer to him he will jump.” The video was posted on @TJR Makhetha’s account and some of his followers were not happy. Although it seems as if he was not the one who recorded the video, people said a person killing themselves was not something to be recorded. Others said the person taking the video could have instead helped instead of recording. However, some said the person would have not been able to help as he was on the other side and far from Mokati. According to @sijabulile, what happened was so tragic and did not have to be captured. She tweeted: "They didn't have to take a video PERIOD. Why take a video of something so tragic?" Tweeter user, @TsakiDash agreed saying: "I’m trying to think of the "awareness" this video was meant to bring, the only thing I'm  aware of is that It was not necessary to record this video, FULL STOP!"  Another person, @JDMoleko could not understand it either asking: "Why were people watching? Why were people taking videos. This is actually disgusting." Police spokesperson, Lieutenant-Colonel Thabo Covane said what people were doing, taking such videos and putting them on social media was inflicting more trauma to the loved ones of the person being recorded. “The instantaneous nature of social media is a problem. Imagine finding out about the death of your loved one on social media?”  he said. Covane also confirmed that the incident happened on Saturday. He said police received a call from a security guard from Fidelity Security that there was a young man who had jumped off the roof. The guard had told the police that he was on duty patrolling and when he got to the roof noticed a young male wearing a black pair of jeans, black shoes, hooded yellow top and white hat, Covane said. “The young man had a black school bag and a file with him. The security guard called his supervisor and they both tried to persuade the young man to stop his planned action. The guard alleges that it was 18.12pm when the young man jumped into the water. Before he jumped, he dropped his school bag and file on the ground. The police arrived and from his personal file it was discovered that his name is Lerothodi Joseph Mokati,” Covane said. Mokati died at the scene and Covane said police divers later arrived and retrieved his body from the water.