The morning is icy cold with the sun slowly rising from the horizon. A helicopter can be heard faintly, its volume increases steadily until it's the only thing that can be heard. The rapid stomp of hooves is introduced with rangers shouting while they guide a small herd of wildebeests into the “curtain”. The wildebeests are funneled into a metal container with an open top before they are guided up a ramp and into a large truck where they are tranquilized. This small herd of wildebeest are part of 150 that will be mass captured and translocated to the Zinave National Park in Mozambique. The translocation is part of a partnership between the Mozambican government and South African National Parks to de-wild Mozambique after the extinction of its wildlife because of the civil war and poaching. Lawrence De Lange, Kruger National Park operations coordinator said the translocation started this year with the aim of 150 blue wildebeest, 200 zebra and 520 impala to be translocated to the neighbouring country. According to De Lange about 300 impala, 100 wildebeest and 50 zebra have been translocated this year. “It’s due to poaching and the war in that area. They are just locally extinct in that area so it’s actually quite a nice project to be part of,” said De Lange. “It’s quite sad that we as humans make animals go extinct.” On top of the trunk is a veterinarian and other rangers who use a rob-like instruments to tranquilize the wildebeests who will remain unconscious for 26 hours before they arrive at Zinave. De Lange said there is a 3% fatality rate of the animals who die on the trip because of stress. “When it’s hot, it is just more stressful for the animals so we want to work as quick as possible and finish as soon as possible in the morning because animals do stress and they overeat,” he said. The translocation which costs about R300 000 works on a three to five kilometre radius around the kraal or boma. “We come before and we have a look in the area where there is the most concentration of animals that we need,” said De Lange. The wind and visibility of footpaths are important to lure the animals into the boma but a helicopter is also used. By the end of the morning, about 50 wildebeest were captured and are currently on their way to Zinave. The observation of the translocation process is part of a media trip organised by the South African National Parks (SANParks) to the Kruger National Park to share information on anti-poaching and other conservation efforts in the park. Later in the day after the temperatures rises to about 32 degrees celsius, section ranger Andrew Desmet does a ranger aircraft demonstration on light sports aircrafts which are used for responses on incidents of poaching. Desmet flies an ultralight Bathawk aircraft and is worth about R500 000. During incidents of poaching, the rangers on the ground who see fresh tracks will request that Desmet follows the track in the aircraft based on their location. While he is flying, the rangers will raise a flag and point to the direction of the suspected poachers. The trackers on the ground and Desmet work together to locate the poachers or and if he spots them from the air or a caucus he’ll communicate with the rangers to engage. He said the pressure is intense because there are almost daily incursions and sometimes multiple in one day. “It’s a war and these guys are coming in armed and they want to get their reward, their horn, their tusk and they’re willing to risk their lives and if we get in their way, they’re willing to risk our lives.”  @Chulu_M