Johannesburg - Beloved talk radio host Xolani Gwala will be returning to radio on Thursday as he steps in on 702 The Afternoon Drive while Joanne Joseph is away. Gwala, who hasn’t been on radio in a year, revealed in an interview on The Azania Mosaka Show on 702 on Thursday afternoon that his doctors said he is good to go back to work. “I am happy, I’m strong, I’m nervous as hell and I’m emotional,” he said. Gwala recalled the day in September last year when he revealed in an interview that he was diagnosed with advanced colon cancer. “I came straight from the hospital to do that interview, maybe two weeks prior I had my first surgery. I had lost so much weight, I was ill and really really ill,” he said. Gwala said decided to share his diagnosis because many people were asking questions about what had happened to him and he wanted to share his story for the many other people who also have cancer. ALSO READ: Xolani Gwala reveals he has colon cancer, messages of support pour in He said that he noticed symptoms in early August where he would feel very tired and had flu symptoms. He then went back and forth to doctors who told him that it’s just a viral infection, until his wife insisted that he goes to the hospital. He was immediately put in isolation and by the next evening they found out he had cancer. “The discovered it through the liver first and traced it back to colon,” he said. “It was in the colon. Seven out of eight segments of my livers were covered with cancer. My doctor said now that when he first looked at the scan, I had more cancer than I had a healthy liver.” Gwala has had three operations in his stomach, a procedure called embolization and other procedure to put in a port to take chemotherapy. “With the passage of time, you will understand certain things and at the moment I don’t understand, I don’t know. All I know it that I'm here and I am grateful everyday top be here," he said. Gwala will be stepping in for Joseph in for the 702 Afternoon Drive show to the next two and a half weeks @Chulu_M The Star