JOHANNESBURG- Poet and singer Ntsiki Mazwai could be dragged to court for defamation over tweets in which she labelled PR specialist Azola Mlota a rapist. Mazwai made the statements on Tuesday on the social media network Twitter in yet another episode of trolling. Mlota, a social media influencer, is accusing Mazwai of defaming him after she allegedly labelled him a rapist and called on people to boycott his company. This follows Mlota's post about an upcoming event where kwaito artist Brickz, real name Sipho Ndlovu, will be performing.     PLEASE BOYCOTT AZOLA MLOTA PR AND PROMOTIONS THEY ARE A RAPE FRIENDLY COMPANY! HE IS PROBABLY A RAPIST HIMSELF!!!!!! https://t.co/zEQLFFmeXf — CheriEgrand🦋 (@ntsikimazwai) 
 July 31, 2018  However, he is not in custody as he is appealing his conviction and is currently out on R80 000 bail. In October last year, Mazwai took to Twitter, alleging that Brickz had also raped her.  However, she never reported the incident to the police. In July, the Roodepoort Magistrate's Court found Brickz guilty of raping a 16-year-old in his home in November 2013. It all started when Mlota tweeted: “We also bring to you the legendary Kwaito Sensation @BrickzMabrigado ready to entertain at the Third Annual Mzansi Kwaito & House Music Awards @MKHMA2018 Nomination Party 03 August 2018,” tweeted @MtolaPRPromos yesterday. In response, Mazwai wrote: “PLEASE BOYCOTT AZOLA MLOTA PR AND PROMOTIONS THEY ARE A RAPE FRIENDLY COMPANY! HE IS PROBABLY A RAPIST HIMSELF!!!!!!” In response, Mlota tweeted that he was offended by what Mazwai said about him "My company delivers promos which are approved and instructed by the client. Without you doing research about the whole issue u just quick to talk with your ass instead with your mouth, foolishness!(sic) “As an events and promotions company we do not make decisions on who to have on shows but rather take instructions from the client. Remarks by @ntsikimazwai are defamation of character to the company & @mlota_azola In this regard, we are laying a charge for such false accusations," he tweeted. However, Mazwai did not back down: “Listen if you promote a rapist we can assume you promote raping. Simple. That won't change," she tweeted.      As an events and promotions company we do not make decisions on who to have on shows but rather take instructions from the client.Remarks by @ntsikimazwai are defamation of character to the company & @mlota_azola In this regard, we are laying a charge for such false accusations  — Azola Mlota PR & Promos (@MlotaPRPromos) 
 July 31, 2018   Speaking to The Star, Mlota said he would take the matter up. “She defamed me and I want her to stop before she ruins the lives of other people with her defamatory comments on Twitter,” he said. The Star also reached out to Mazwai who said she would not entertain Mlota, adding that many victims of abuse did not report the cases due to secondary victimisation. Cases of trolling were again put on the spotlight last week when the Randburg magistrate found that author of the book Bare, Jackie Phamotse, harassed businesswoman Basetsana Kumalo in a tweet which, however, made no direct mention of the media mogul. Magistrate Helen Banks made it clear that one can be punished for making derogatory comments about someone on social media. Phamotse was ordered to never make comments about Kumalo on social media. Banks also ruled that Phamotse would be arrested should she violate the order. @smashaba