On Thursday, Twala was called to the witness stand once again, for cross-examination by Mafokate’s defence attorney Leana Fick at the Midrand Branch Magistrate’s Court. Fick and Twala had an intense exchange of words with sarcastic-undertoned responses. Mafokate stands accused of assaulting Twala and dragging her alongside his car last year. He has pleaded not guilty to a charge of assault with the intent to do grievous bodily harm. Mafokate’s attorney had asked the singer why she thought the kwaito star knew she was stuck onto the car. As a result, an emotional outburst of tears trickled down both Mafokate and Twala’s faces. “I believe that he heard me and he obviously chose to ignore it," Twala responded. She added that the fact that Mafokate claimed to have not seen her because it was dark was not true because she had driven in the same car with him before. “I’ve driven with this man a couple of times and he is a very vigilant guy. His security is very important and he is always aware of what goes on... “When he came to hospital, I asked him ‘Why did you not stop?’, and he said ‘I thought you were just being dramatic’. That was his answer to me,” she told the court. “I am very much aware that he was aware of my presence,” said Twala. Once Twala made that statement, they both broke down in tears during a gruelling trial. “A generic answer that he could have given would have been ‘I did not see you’,” Twala stated. While on the witness stand, Twala claimed Mafokate took advantage of his public-figure status to get away with abusing her and showed no remorse. Twala also told the court that the kwaito star had many young men who looked up to him, and believed the whole process was unnecessary. “For him to come to the court and put this evidence against me... I just wanted him to show that he did something wrong and show a bit of remorse. And that’s all I ever wanted,” she said. Twala added: “He never showed any remorse for what he had done to me.” Both Mafokate and Twala had opened counter-cases of assault against each other. However, Twala was acquitted of the charge against her. The matter continues today.