“Success, does not happen overnight. It takes years of patience, passion and dedication." These are the profound yet underrated words of Bokang Lebina an aspiring actress, model and presenter. The 24-year-old lass made her debut on Mzansi Magic's The Queen last week and is excited for her future endeavors. She has made a few appearances in a number of commercials and a has also shot a series which will air next year. As if that was not enough, she has also made a cameo on the eTV soapie Rhythm City. “The Queen came about through an agent that I lost contact with. She felt like I fitted the description. Overall, my journey has not been easy. It been very challenging and it needs a lot of discipline,” said Lebina. However, Lebina is not naive about the negative side of the industry. Although she has not been in the industry for  a long time, she knows what the struggles of young actresses like her who are desperate to make their name in the industry.  In the entertainment industry, she said, men normally viewed her as an object and people in power often took advantage of her hunger for success. “As a female, you encounter a lot of 'I can give you a part all you need to do is come to my office'. Men in power take advantage of the fact that you're still trying to get your name out there. I was shooting a commercial one day and one of the directors came up to me and asked if I had done anything else. He said knew people from a certain soapie and could make it happen if I did him a favour,” she said. According to her, thirsty vultures were not the only hindrances as scamming agents were also a very big headahe. “I have been scammed and it is rough in these streets. I did a shoot for Rhythm City and I still have not been paid. I can’t get a hold of the lady who booked me. I also signed up to an agency, well known one, and paid a joining fee. I prepared a monologue, signed and paid and I  didn’t ever hear from him,” she said. She advised people who want to break into the industry to be careful, do their research and don’t get taken by the hype. Despite all the challenges she has encountered, Lebina said the support from her family was overwhelming and comforting. “My mom knows that acting is something that I genuinely love and am interested in. However, I did somewhat lose track along the way because you lose focus along the way. You get to high-school and there is booze, there’s boys and you lose yourself.  At some point, I had to take the plunge and follow my heart and pursue what I knew would fulfill me. It hasn’t been easy but as far as support from family and friends... it has been great,” said Lebina. "It is important to have a dream but you need to do something to get there. Take the steps in making it a reality and put the work in."  siphumelele.khumalo@inl.co.za 