There's a new kid on the block at Multichoice's 24-hour news home and his name is Newzroom Afrika. The new channel will replace Afro Worldview which MultiChoice removed from its DStv platform last week. MultiChoice announced on Tuesday that the company has been selected to produce the new 24-hour news channel to be broadcast on DStv. According to Multchoice, this new company was  formed by successful television production entrepreneurs Thokozani Nkosi of Eclipse TV and Thabile Ngwato of Rapid Innovation. "Their bid stood out for its potential to bring a fresh, creative and diversified approach to news reporting, which included an integrated digital strategy, combined with sound audience analysis and appealing on-screen execution. "Newzroom Afrika has assembled an editorial team with proven news media credentials. Accomplished television executive Zanele Mthembu will head the broadcast operation; while the newsroom will be under the leadership of veteran news media executive and journalist Malebo Phage. There will be an editorial ethics oversight board spearheaded by the illustrious Joe Thloloe and Dinesh Balliah, a forward-thinking journalist and academic." According to Multichoce, the new channel will  enhance and enrich the news offering on DStv, whilst at the same time creating a new black-owned entrant in South African news media. It will promote the diversity of voices in media and give all our customers the chance to find a news channel on DStv that resonates with them. Thabile Ngwato “Today marks the birth of an exciting new and independent media voice in South Africa. We set out to find a quality new, black-owned, independent news channel to expand the diversity of SA news and enrich our democracy – we’re excited by the outcome,” said MultiChoice SA CEO Calvo Mawela. “Independent, trustworthy media are essential to a healthy democracy and the calibre of journalists on the Newzroom Afrika team will ensure that this new channel plays its part with distinction. “As with other news channels on DStv such as SABC News, eNCA, Business Day TV, CNN, Sky News and Al Jazeera, MultiChoice will have no editorial oversight over the new channel. Thokozani Nkosi Nkosi said the new venture was a great opportunity for them to bring a fresh perspective to South African news media by building a news channel from scratch. "We’re excited and raring to go,” said Nkosi. Ngwato, on the other hand, said it was no secret that the future of media was digital. "Which is why we took a deliberate decision to put digital at the heart of our news channel, to be disrupters rather than being disrupted. Our channel will be a new offering with a new perspective and approach. We’re committed to provide independent and dependable reporting, and will deliver that through our strong editorial team. We’ll be sharing further details about the channel in the coming weeks,” said Ngwato. 