Chesa Mpama, Fong Kong and Romeo are just some of the hit songs the late Senyaka had people singing along to during his music career. The revered creative, whose real name was Thula Kekana, was a man of many talents. He died in 2015. To celebrate his talent, Themba “Fizzy” Sithole has produced a show that will see some of kwaito’s biggest icons come together to reminisce and pay tribute to a man who was more than a musician to his community and industry friends. “A lot of us are fortunate to have known a side that the public never got to. It gives us pride and pleasure to celebrate the memory of Senyaka with people who personally knew him,” said Sithole. The production A Night of Kwaito with Moruti wa Tsotsi’s Friends will be a night of music and dance presented by actress and singer Lerato Mvelase. “The evening will be filled with laughter and tears. It will illustrate the talented and complex man he was. He was a creative man who saw opportunities in all circumstances. He touched everyone who knew him. He was an honest person who provided good advice and great guidance,” said Sithole. Mvelase said the chance to be part of the production came as she was branching into the music business. “I’m relaunching myself differently, as many people don’t know that I can sing. I’ve always been passionate about the culture of e’lokshin. Since I am branching into music, let me use the idea of isipantsula and kwaito to reintroduce it. When people think of pantsulas they think of people hanging at a corner who are probably up to no good. But there is a sense of camaraderie in kwaito, a brotherhood and a sisterhood.” Mvelase added that the kwaito community was special, and that was something she wanted to be a part of. “Especially as a young black South African where we are infiltrated with the idea of being American and being foreign. Why not use a culture that is originally ours and make it really cool and relevant?” Sithole said Senyaka was a philanthropist, removing troubled youth from the streets and developing them into productive members of society. In 2006, he pioneered a venture to get street kids back to school, and provided structured support for them to succeed. “Being a business in his own right, he tirelessly encouraged communities to develop themselves into entrepreneurs.”      Senyaka was a professional hairstylist, and his road to music was through his friendship with producer Sello “Chicco” Twala. The all-star line-up for the production will be friends of Senyaka who were popular on the airwaves at the height of kwaito. These include vocalist and producer Kamazu, Mzekezeke, Jairus Nkwe and Mandla “Spikiri” Mofokeng of Trompies, DJ Walker, DJ Beat Mochini, J Ross, DJ Sue and Tloks Lepara. Kamazu, the man behind the 1980s hit Korobela, said his friendship with Senyaka was like a brotherhood. “He was my brother and I would not miss the chance to celebrate him or be part of anything that involved him. I want the audience to understand (from the production) the level at which Senyaka was in terms of his writing and making music. He had insight of the future, a man who was ahead of his time in most of his ideology.” Kamazu said to this day he still missed the man he called “the greatest comedian”. “He was amazing. A great guy that was always laughing and joking.There was never a dull moment with him. He was such a great man who knew how to make music.” Mvelase said Kwaito was underrated in the country. “There was a point when Kwaito was was the thing. People must not think that Kwaito can’t contribute to the development of this country. Who wouldn’t want to be working with these legends and see the journey they come from and find out more about this man I grew up listening to.” A Night of Kwaito with Moruti wa Tsotsi’s Friends will be on at The Fringe Theatre at Joburg Theatre on Friday. Tickets cost R200. @mane_mpi