 What type of smartphone are you using and how long have you had it? I have two phones. An iPhone 6, which I have had for a while, and an S8.  Are the smartphones that you are using making your life easy, if yes how? Somewhat yes, it helps that I am able to check my emails on the go, connect to my fans through social media and also entertain myself through games and music.  How often do you receive promotional calls on your smartphones from advertisers? How do you respond to them when you are not interested? EVERYDAY I receive calls and I have various ways to decline, depending on what they are selling. I will tell them I am not working or I don't have the money or just say that I am not interested.  How many gadgets do you have? I wish I had a camera. I love gadgets but can't afford them. Hahaha. Besides my phones, I have a laptop which I got from my sister.  Name three gadgets that you think you wouldn't survive without? My phones and my laptop. THUSO MBEDU  What are your thoughts on the option WhatsApp has to delete messages on the App? I love it. I sometimes find myself sending to the wrong person or wanting to take back what I said. My only issue is: Why must it show that I deleted the message? So frustrating because almost every time the person or people in the group will ask “what did you delete?”  When travelling, do you put your phone on flight mode or do you switch it off? Flight mode. ALSO READ: #TechFriday Celeb: Kim Jayde  If you were to invent a tech device for an actress, what would it do and how would it look? A device that will help me run lines, currently I use whoever is around to help me. I think also a robot PA that manages my diary, schedule and organises things like sourcing outfits, fixing breakfast. Basically everything.  What are your thoughts on virtual reality headsets - would you buy them? I think technology is progressing and that is the next step and makes sense. I am all for innovation and watch me write and shoot a film that people will watch on VR headsets.  Which social media platform do you use most to connect with your fans? Why? I use Twitter to engage mostly but I am also very active on Instagram just to show my supporters what I am up to and give them a little insight into my life. On Facebook I have a page but not so active on it.