When Kirsten's* three-year-old daughter contracted flu, she thought nothing of it. This was until the child complained she couldn't see because of a burning sensation in her eyes. When the child was taken to the doctor and blood tests were taken, she was informed she had contracted swine flu. Kirsten and her husband, who live in Sandton, also went for tests and they also tested positive for the influenza strain. Kirsten said: “My daughter had an extremely high fever that was uncontrollable. When she complained about burning eyes and that she could not see, we decided to go to the doctor for tests. We took swabs and the doctors confirmed it has swine flu,” she said. The child was put on treatment and is now better, but the mother is reluctant to send her back to preschool. “We don't know where she got it and I am paranoid to send her back to preschool,” Kirsten said. The family reported the diagnosis to the preschool, also in Sandton. No other children from the school were reported to have contracted the virus. The National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD) has reassured the county that there was nothing to worry about. Instead, Dr Sibongile Wa- laza, a medical epidemiologist with the institute, said the H1N1 virus that the family had been diagnosed with was a normal influenza strain. “There is no swine flu. This is an incorrect term to use in 2018. Influenza A(H1N1)pdm09, the influenza strain which the media and public incorrectly refer to as swine flu, emerged globally in 2009 during the pandemic, and for the past eight years has been identified on an annual basis during the influenza season. Influenza H1N1 behaves like any strain of seasonal influenza,” Walaza said. She said the influenza season was between May and September and it was normal to have an increase in people experiencing mild and more severe respiratory illness. Walaza noted: “Since the beginning of May a total of 632 influenza cases have been diagnosed as part of influenza surveillance programmes conducted by the NICD. The majority of cases have been influenza H1N1 which was detected in 94% of the patients.” * Not her real name The Star