JOHANNESBURG- Nearly a month after it was alleged that a BBC reporter lured unsuspecting people to lie on camera under false pretenses, he still remains untraceable. Golden Mtika went underground over a week after the documentary, My Neighbour Is A Rapist, was aired on BBC Africa Eye last month. It was about an alleged HIV positive man, David Kaise, who said on camera that he was a serial rapist intent on spreading  the virus as much as he could through rape.The documentary was widely shared on social media and left many people reeling in shock. However, people interviewed in the documentary later came out to say they were paid to say whatever it is they said by Mtika who told them that it was a film that he was shooting and it was going to be broadcast overseas. The Star then went looking for Mtika but found that he had left the area. Attempts to reach him on his phone were also fruitless as his phone was off. While it is now on, it just rings unanswered. On Monday The Star went back to Diepsloot where Mtika lives with his partner and children. The couple had abandoned their house for days following the uproar over the documentary. The wife, however, returned. Mtika’s wife, who refused to give her name, said: “I was there when the documentary was shot. Golden is not here at the moment but he will be back later. I don’t know what time. He is self-employed so there's really no specific time for him to return home,” she said. She would not be drawn into commenting further about the documentary and whether or not Mtika still worked for BBC. In the video, Kaise claims to have raped more than 24 women because he wanted to spread HIV so that he doesn't die alone. After it was broadcast, Kaise claimed that he was not HIV-positive nor was he a rapist. He claimed that Mtika had paid him R350 and told what to say. David’s sister, Paulina Kaise, said despite neighbours threatening to beat up and kill her brother, he had been going home and “seems to be fairly okay”. “He works for a construction company in Magaliesburg and they sleep there. He comes home on Saturday and leaves for work on Tuesdays. Whenever he is around, he just goes to his friends.  Also, I also have not seen Golden since the video went viral,” she said. The Star also caught up with Ndivhuwo Ramaphalala, a drama enthusiast who was also filmed in the documentary claiming to have been raped and infected with HIV by Kaise, her former lover. The 27-year-old woman also revealed that Mtika paid her R200 and had promised to buy clothes and other necessities for her 11-year-old son if she “performed” in the film. The distraught woman said she just wanted to clear her name. She said everything she said in the video was scripted and her life was now ruined because of it. “I just want this whole thing to be over so my life and reputation can go back to normal. I just want this to end,” said Ramaphalala, adding that her boyfriend dumped her after the documentary was aired. Both Kaise and Ramaphalala have opened criminal cases against Mtika. The BBC has denied the alleged cooking up of stories saying they stand by their journalism. “There was no scripting of interviews; all interviewees provided accounts with full consent,” said Marina Forsythe, publicist of the BBC World Service. The documentary is still a talking subject on Twitter. @Psyfoliciousnes wrote: “Fake news can be as simple has spreading misinformation.or as dangerous as smearing hateful propaganda.Not everything said about Diepsloot is true, such as MyNeighbourTheRapist on @BBCWorld The journalist wants to be seen… #ProtectMyDiepsloot #ILoveDiepsloot”. @ThatDarnKitteh said: “People were paid to participate, not to lie. And even if it was an act, there are real rapists who have done exactly what is described in "My Neighbour, the Rapist". Let's not kid ourselves, SA.” @Siphumelele_k