An agreement was reached between the Bombela Operating Company and the United National Transport Union (Untu), after a series of meetings and negotiations. Workers affiliated to the Federation Union of South Africa (Fedusa) stood in solidarity with Untu employees in support of the industrial action that left many commuters stranded. About 90% of the workers were demanding a 10% wage increase and complained about their medical aid, claiming that the 50% deduction was too high. Workers also requested a R1 600 per month housing allowance, a R20 000 unconditional annual bonus, an increase in the night work transport subsidy of R64 per night shift and a 55% medical aid contribution from the company. “This has really affected us because it is on the basis of 'no work, no pay'. On Sunday, a meeting took place to try to find a solution. While we waited for the announcement, we hoped that there would be a positive response,” said an employee, who declined to be named. Steve Harris, general secretary of Untu, apologised to commuters and staff for the inconvenience and thanked them for being patient. He announced the following adjustments: The basic salary of all employees in the B lower-band grading will be increased to R8500. The housing allowance has been increased from R750 to R900. A guaranteed once-off bonus to the value of R5000 is to be paid on December 31, 2018. An incentive bonus based on the company’s operational key performance indicators for the period September 1, 2018 to August 31, 2019 to a maximum amount of R5000 is to be paid on September 30, 2019. But many of the workers expressed their dissatisfaction with the offer and have said the only reason they will not contest it is because it is a year-long agreement and they hope to negotiate a better deal after the period ends. “We are pleased to advise that the strike, which commenced on July 30 following wage negotiations that deadlocked between the Bombela Operating Company and Untu, has ended, with Untu accepting an across-the-board increase of 8% to all employees in the bargaining unit,” said Gautrain spokesperson Kesagee Nayager. She thanked passengers for their patience. The railway service has also confirmed that passengers who have been unable to utilise their weekly or monthly train tickets as a result of the strike will be compensated for unused trips. After the agreement was signed, Fedusa spokesperson Frank Nxumalo said: “The CCMA advised the two parties to build trust, because failure to reach an agreement was because of no trust between the two parties."