Members Nhlanhla Nciza and Theo Kgosinkwe are no strangers to the festival, having performed at it several times before. The Love Potion hitmakers said they were again ready to offer fans and lovers of music a memorable family experience. Kgosinkwe, who spoke to The Star just before boarding a plane to Australia for the group’s 2018 international tour, said the event was always exciting to take part in. “We have been doing it for a while now. I think people have been enjoying our performances and I think that’s why they are calling us again,” he said. “But it also poses a challenge to us, that we have to think about what it is we can come up with that is different to what we have done the previous times. We are that type of band that always wants to put on a good show,” he said.   For Mafikizolo, being able to give audiences a good show has become their trademark. “It’s a family day and we are both family people. We both have kids. What I like about it is that it is inclusive of all races. “With the family environment that the event brings, we already get into a set-up where people are hyped up,” said Kgosinkwe. In terms of fashion, Kgosinkwe hinted that the duo were looking at bringing even more colour to their bright outfits and performance vibrance. “Since it’s spring we are looking forward to something different. For us the performance we are going to put together is something that is very important and we have to consider all elements,” he said. The event will take place on Spring Day, September 1, at Crocodile Creek Estate in Lanseria. Mark the date on your calendar and treat yourself to a line-up filled with South Africa’s biggest hit-makers, award-winners and chart-toppers, including The Parlotones, Riky Rick, Jeremy Loops, Goodluck, DJ Maphorisa, Lady Zamar, Goldfish, AKA, DJ Kent, Chrizz Beatz, Prince Kaybee, Shekhinah and Gangs of Ballet. The event has become a showcase for excellence in the South African music industry and gives fans a chance to support or connect live with their favourite music icons. @Zwane_2li2ls