The music powerhouse who is set to ignite the fire of classic and nostalgic music is in the country. At a media briefing at MultiChoice’s head office in Randburg, the cool, calm and collected Hamilton had the room starstruck. “It’s good to be back,” said the chart-topper. “It’s been about three years, and I’ve been trying to get back ever since. “It’s always beautiful.” The last time he was in Mzansi he performed alongside the big neo-soul and R&B artist, Jaheim. “It seems like I always come back. But I like it here because I see so many people who look like me, my family and cousins. “On the billboards, I think a lot of times in America there are lighter shades (of people) who are mostly advertised. “Here you see us as just brown (skin tone). “Everybody is beautiful, but it’s good to see us as the centre of attention,” he said. The singer, songwriter, multi- platinum-selling hit record- maker said it was significant that he was back during Women’s Month, because he loves the idea of celebrating women. “It should be Women’s Day everyday. I like women. I think it’s beautiful that I came here around this special time. “I like to celebrate women, they have been a very important part of my life from my mother, sisters and aunts. Women are just amazing, period! “They teach us how to be men when daddy is not there. You guys wear a lot of hats and you should be celebrated,” he said. The megastar is newly single, following his divorce from singer Tarshá, and is promoting his latest album, What I’m Feelin’. “I was going through a phase coming out of a marriage two years ago, where I was asking myself what it was that I am feeling, going into dating and trying to find myself outside of the marriage. “It was a time for me to let go of a lot, enjoy life, party, and connect with family and friends. Now it’s rock ’* roll baby!” he laughed. Hamilton has had a long and prosperous career in the music industry, with many describing him as the bridge between old school pop and soul music. “I think that is behind my drive. The old taught me how to be who I am musically, from Aretha Franklin, who’s amazing legacy lives on, Al Green, Bill Withers, not even that far back. “Also, the Boyz II Men and Jodeci era, we have so many greats and even till today we have Fantasia, Jazmine Sullivan and the like “It all creates the sound that you are listening to now, and listening to other people. It is old school, with just a new cat performing it now,” he added. Hailed as the “King of Soul”, Hamilton’s timeless voice has birthed hit songs including Best Of Me, Never Love Again, Pass Me Over, Her Heart, Pray For Me, I Cry, Comin’ From Where I’m From, and Freedom. These have echoed across the world, proving that he is the one with the music. The Her Heart singer is gearing up to dazzle fans at his two concerts tomorrow and Saturday at the Sun Arena Time Square in Menlyn in Pretoria. He told The Star his fans can expect his best, especially as he has brought his band, The HamilTones, with him. “I give it my all, I leave it all on the table,” he said. @Zwane_2li2ls