The Good Samaritan who saved the life of a cyclist has revealed the story of how he came to be a hero that is now being celebrated for his bravery and good heart. Jon Jon Pietersen, a hiker, helped save the life of a man who had been shot multiple times in a suspected robbery in Krugersdorp while cycling on Saturday morning. Speaking on Breakfast with Martin Bester on Jacaranda FM on Monday morning, Pietersen said he stumbled upon the injured cyclist, Jim, while out driving with a friend looking for new hiking spots. He said they had just passed the Letamo Eco Estate in Krugersdorp when the GPS ordered them to use a certain route to get to their destination. However, Pietersen asked the friend to rather turn around as he wanted to use another route where they would be able to see a white tiger in an enclosure opposite the Rhino Park. They then turned around. As he sat in the car with the window open, Pietersen said he heard someone scream for help with their arms up. He told the friend to stop the car and he rushed to the man in distress. "I climbed out the car. I looked to the left and I see saw another white Land Cruiser pulling up behind  me. I immediately thought 'there is safety in numbers, there's two of us in case something happens this guy can help'. "I looked down and saw blood coming out of Jim's legs. I noticed that he didn't have shoes and he was rolling around and this was real pain. I ran up to him. I didn't have any gloves and I'm sorry but these days you can't just stick your fingers without a glove into a wound so I put my foot on it (the wound). It was bleeding and I needed to do something." Pietersen said he screamed to his friend, asking if she had a first aid kit. She didn't. "Luckily the guy in the white Land Cruiser had two gloves and a little bit of gauze. I put the glove on the right hand and as I put the glove on the left hand it broke. "I put pressure on to the back of his leg and I was doing this I noticed blood coming out of his back. He was wearing a shirt over a little onesie. "I moved this onesie to the side and saw a hole. I needed to apply pressure, this guy was bleeding out so I did.  I used my arm, I had to. "By that time the time someone had stopped and had more gloves with me. Pietersen's friend found a towel which she gave to him. "I put a towel on the back leg. I put my knee on his leg at the back. I had my one finger in his back then asked him if he could move his legs because the gunshot had gone through his back and I was not sure if it had hit his spine.  "He said to me he can feel his legs. I asked him to wriggle his toes and he did . I knew that his legs were ok because I need to put him in a recovery position. "I then rolled him on his side and that's when I noticed a pool of blood underneath his tummy. That gunshot had gone through. So it was two hands, one knee, three holes." Paramedics later arrived and Jim was airlifted to the hospital. Due to being part of a hiking club, Pietersen had basic first aid course and said what how he was able to help.  He also said the bullet did not hit any of Jim's organs. Many people have called Pietersen a hero but an emotional Pietersein said he did what needed to be done "I am being called a hero, and angel.. I just did what anybody should do, which is help a guy in need," Pietersen said, tearing up. Pietersen also revealed that Jim was doing well in hospital and had called him to thank him for saving his life. 