As the storm around Adam Catzavelos' video in which he uses the K-word keeps raging, his family has booted him out of the family business. This is according to a statement that was posted on Radio 702's Eusebius McKaiser's twitter account on Wednesday, allegedly  from the family. In the statement, Catzavelos' brother Nic says the family was appalled by the video which they also say was abhorrent. "We fully disassociate ourselves from the sentiments expressed. We reject racism in any form. Adam Catzavelos has been dismissed with immediate effect from the family business, St George's Fine Foods, and his minority shareholding will be unwound as soon as practically possible. Given the high nature profile nature of this development, the business has been temporarily closed for the protection of all lt's staff. We have no further comment at this stage."      While this may have been issued to placate South Africans angry at the video, many did not buy it. They claimed that the family just released the statement to save face and to also avert a potential boycott. They also said firing Catzavelos did not mean anything. Others, such as @Allan_Tshuma, questioned the authenticity of the contents of the statement. "How is it a family business when it is registered under his name and he is the director? These clowns are taking chances," he tweeted. Some, however, questioned what kind of family Catzavelos came from to be able to comfortably say the K-word and even film himself saying it. "The family themselves need to reflect on how they established an environment for one of their own to feel comfortable to say the k word. Clearly he is surrounded by people who said nothing or were fine with his racism. Or at least felt he could say it with no regard to others," said @DexterDreamer. Another user, @S1pho, also weighed in on the family issue saying: "Racism is not picked up at a supermarket counter like a packet of chips, Adam is a reflection of conditions and environments he grew up in. These types of disclaimers do very little to go into the heart of white racism directed at Black people."