What PAC and Apla members did in Graaff-Reinet during the funeral of Mama Zondeni Veronica Sobukwe over the weekend was fighting for the soul of the PAC and to call our soul our own. If we had allowed the ANC to take over the funeral service of Mama Sobukwe from her family and the PAC it would have been tantamount to engaging in debauchery. The ANC government ignored the instructions from the Sobukwe family and the PAC about how to conduct the funeral service. They even had the gall and temerity to conduct the funeral service of Mama Sobukwe using ANC rituals. The South African anthem is an abomination to the PAC and the South African flag has colours of the Illumi- nati, which is blasphemous to the PAC. The PAC has never sought or desired to conduct funeral services of ANC members. So why do they think they have the divine right to conduct funeral services of members of the PAC, especially the wife of Robert Sobukwe? President Cyril Ramaphosa had paid a visit to the late Winnie Madikizela-Mandela and when she died he declared that she be given a state funeral, which was run the way her family and the ANC wished. When Mama Sobukwe was still alive, Ramaphosa did not acknowledge her as a Struggle icon, let alone pay her a visit. In his maiden speech in Parliament, he mentioned all ANC women Struggle veterans but never mentioned Mama Sobukwe. He was compelled by the Blackhouse Kollective to bestow a national honour on her. It was not out of his own volition. About a month before Mama Sobukwe passed away, she was in a state hospital with inadequate medical supplies. Ramaphosa never sent her a “get well soon” message, so why did he sanction a state funeral for a person he didn't care about? The answer is that the ANC had a well-orchestrated and nefarious agenda of muzzling and undermining the PAC. The PAC was well prepared for their shenanigans. There is a Times Live article headlined “PAC apologises after ‘hooligans’ force Mabuza to leave Mama Sobukwe’s funeral”. The PAC hasn’t apologised. Instead we are patting ourselves on our backs for a job well done. To show that the author of the article under discussion is mischievous, he/she has written it under the veil of anonymity. Sam Ditshego Kagiso, Mogale City