Public schools in Gauteng will soon not be allowed to use language, ethnicity, origin, culture and parents’ financial status to prevent learners from being admitted. Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi this week published amendments to the Regulations Relating to the Admission of Learners to Public Schools that, if passed, would result in wholesale changes to the existing policy. Should the newly elected ANC provincial deputy chairperson have his way, public schools in the province will not unfairly discriminate against learners on the basis of race, language, ethnicity, origin, culture, age, religion, conscience, belief, sexual orientation, and HIV status or any other illness, among others. “A learner may not be refused admission because his or her parent is unable to pay or has not paid school fees or the deposit determined by the school governing body; does not subscribe to the mission statement and code of conduct of the school; or has refused to enter into a contract in terms of which the parent waives any claim for damages arising out of the education of the learner,” read Lesufi’s proposed amendments to the regulations. Public schools will also be barred from demanding confidential reports on parents’ financial status to determine whether they can afford the school fees, as well as their employment details or information relating to learners’ health, misconduct or behaviour that may be used to unfairly discriminate against learners. Joe Mpisi, chairperson of the Gauteng legislature’s portfolio committee on education, said they would be meeting Lesufi next week, and that the proposals were part of modernising and transforming education in the province. “If we do not push for certain things, they won’t happen,” he said. Mpisi used as an example the single-medium Afrikaans secondary school Hoërskool Overvaal in Falcon Ridge, Vereeniging where there were ugly scenes earlier this year when the school refused to admit 55 English-medium Grade 8 learners, and took the matter to the North Gauteng High Court. In January, Judge Bill Prinsloo set aside the Sedibeng East district office’s decision to place additional learners for enrolment at Hoërskool Overvaal. But Mpisi said “particular people” don’t want other races in the public schools that they control through the school governing bodies. “There must be no discrimination at schools.” According to Mpisi, the committee wants to tie up certain issues in order to tighten the regulations pertaining to public schools. He said independent and private schools were also refusing to take learners from poor households living within the 5km radius prescribed by the department, even if the government offered to pay. “We can’t deny a child education because his or her parents can’t afford to pay. It’s not the problem of learners that their parents are unemployed,” Mpisi added. DA MPL Khume Ramulifho said Lesufi’s plan could afford parents opportunities to have a broader choice of schools for their children, but it would not solve the underlying problem because there were only a few good schools. He said using pricing to prevent access was presenting a challenge, adding that while school fees were used to employ additional teachers through steep fees, defaulting parents end up unable to enrol their younger children in the schools. Ramulifho said Lesufi’s proposals on ending language discrimination would depend on practicalities and the capacity to accommodate learners. Schools that specialise in certain languages could be the solution as they could help improve mother tongue education and the learning of indigenous languages, according to Ramulifho. “We must redesign schools based on the current South African dynamics. Schools were (previously) designed to enforce apartheid,” he said. Ramulifho encouraged parents to participate in the process initiated by Lesufi, and appealed to the provincial government to ensure it consults widely. Lesufi has given parents and other stakeholders 30 days to submit written representations to his proposals. Matakanye Matakanye, general secretary of the National Association of School Governing Bodies, said language should not be used to exclude children from attending the schools of their parents’ choice. “You can’t use language to discriminate; once you use language it means that that school belongs in the past.” And using learners’ disciplinary records for admission was also unfair to those still of the compulsory schoolgoing age, he added. “Schools have the right to expel a learner but if they are still of compulsory schoolgoing age, the department has the right to find that learner (another place),” Matakanye pointed out.