The DA in Joburg said it was not going to stand by and let the ANC attempt to achieve a hostile takeover of the City without a fight. The party said it was clear that the ANC will do anything to” return to the gravy train in Johannesburg” and that they were willing to do just about anything to achieve that even if it mean trampling on the Constitution or abusing laws for political ends. This follows Gauteng ANC announcing its plans to push for fresh elections in the metros led by DA coalitions such as Tshwane, Joburg and Nelson Mandela Bay during a press conference on Sunday. ANC Deputy provincial chairperson Panyaza Lesufi said at the press conference that Tshwane and Joburg Metro were being hobbled by instability and scandals that had hampered service delivery. “Parties in these respective councils have spent more time discussing motions of no confidence than servicing our people. We as the ANC believe that the solution is to restore order and sanity so that the ANC can have a clear mandate. “And if the ANC does not have that mandate, we will make way for those with a clear mandate to run those municipalities,” Lesufi said. However, MMC for Finance in the City of Joburg Funzela Ngobeni hit back at the ANC, saying this was just an indication that  it was not taking  its 2016 loss very well. Ngobeni said the ANC had made it clear that it has a strategy to deal with the loss and that was to use the provincial government “to achieve a hostile takeover of Johannesburg against the expressed will of the voters in 2016”. He said it was specifically stated during the press conference that the strategy was to have the MEC of the Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (COGTA) in terms of Section 106(1)(b) of the Municipal Systems Act, issue investigations into the City of Joburg. When this was  done, Section 139 would then be utilised to place Johannesburg under administration in order to hold fresh elections. “What emerges from this is that the Inter-Governmental Relations Framework, enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic, is now being run straight out of Luthuli House. "This is the only logical explanation for how the MEC of COGTA can issue a notice of a Section 106(1)(b) investigation into Johannesburg and plagiarise the same complaint the ANC in Johannesburg lodged against the multi-party government. “No effort was undertaken to ascertain, as required by law, that the MEC has “reason to believe” that some form of corruption, fraud or maladministration has taken place. Instead a press conference was called and this strategy, culminating with the end goal of placing Johannesburg under administration, is casually articulated under an ANC logo. “All of this is wrapped in a veneer of stating that the ANC in Gauteng wants fresh elections to seek a mandate from the electorate. In Johannesburg the ANC went from 58% in 2011 to 44% in 2016. (This means that) 56% of the residents of Johannesburg wanted the ANC out of government.” Ngobeni said the people of Johannesburg rejected the ANC for not just ignoring the corruption but for purposely looking the other way while the looting went on with impunity. “The ANC in Johannesburg and Gauteng have not come to terms with the wishes of the people of Johannesburg. They want to champion coalition arrangements in Ekurhuleni and places where they govern, and question the mandates of coalition governments where they have lost power. “Indeed, it is a sad truth that those implicated in corruption at the City of Joburg have now, conveniently, found new homes in Ekurhuleni. It is clear that the ANC will do anything to return to the gravy train in Johannesburg and that they are willing to do just about anything to achieve their objective. Whether it is trampling on the Constitution, abusing laws for political ends or claiming the 2016 elections were anything other than an unequivocal demand for change. “An attempted hostile takeover in Johannesburg, crudely veiled in the ANC’s new found concern for corruption, laws and voters will not happen without a fight,” Ngobeni said.  “ 