According to the Quarterly Labour Force Survey, released by Stats SA last week, there have been two consecutive quarters showing a decrease in unemployment in the city, from 32.3% to 30.8%. Nationally and provincially the unemployment rate is 37.2% Joburg mayor Herman Mashaba said the city had “bucked” the provincial and national trends by creating 109000 new jobs during this period. “Unfortunately, this growth in Joburg has taken place at a time when we must sympathise with the 418000 more people joining the ranks of the unemployed nationally, and 115000 more in Gauteng over the same period,” Mashaba said. The latest jobs statistics for the city show that, steadily, change that creates jobs is taking root in the city, and a greater degree of business confidence is developing, he said. This has been apparent by the city achieving a record R8.7billion in investment in the 2017/18 financial year, exceeding targets by more than R3bn, he added. “The city has focused on the fundamental requirements that produce the requisite environment to foster economic and job growth in Joburg. These relate to, among others, infrastructure renewal, stability of services, establishing the rule of law and moving towards a professional civil service.” The city had increased its efforts to fight crime and corruption. The establishment of the group forensics and investigation services unit had uncovered more than 3500 cases of graft and maladministration involving close to R18bn, and wrong-doers were facing the consequences, added the mayor. The revitalisation of the inner city was another intervention to create more jobs. “By attracting investment from property developers and, in turn, turning our inner city into a construction site, we will create jobs during, as well as post, construction. Training opportunities will also be created for 300 young would-be artisans,” he said. The city had also increased the capacity of its metro police department through the recruitment of an additional 1500 officers and the launch of Operation Buya Mthetho, a campaign aimed at enforcing by-laws, removing illegal water and electricity connections and identifying hijacked buildings. Since January, about 8000 people had been arrested. @annacox