Attempts to depose the first female chief of the Eastern Cape’s AmaHlubi clan Nolitha Ludidi, largely on grounds of her gender, have been dealt another blow. The Bloemfontein-based Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) has dismissed the application by Ludidi Ludidi, the male contender to the throne, to overturn a high court ruling that affirmed chieftainship of the 52-year-old Nolitha. President of the SCA Justice Mandisa Maya found against Ludidi Ludidi’s argument that the Hlubi Royal Family had no powers to recommend an individual to be appointed as a chief by the Premier. Ludidi Ludidi claimed that the Hlubi Royal Family, which recommended Nolitha for chief of amaHlubi, was a recently established structure formed by his detractors merely to block him from succeeding his father, Chief Manzezulu Ludidi who died in October 2012. He argued that he had a “firm, reasonable, genuine and bona fide substantive legitimate expectation” that he would inherit Manzezulu’s chieftainship as the eldest son. Ludidi Ludidi said his father had also selected him to succeed him. Moving against the Hlubi Royal Family, the Mancaphayi Royal Family recommended the appointment of Ludidi Ludidi as chief. But as respondents in the application, Eastern Cape Premier Phumulo Masualle and the Hlubi Royal Family challenged the bona fides of the Mancaphayi Royal Family. They said the Hlubi Royal Family has existed since time immemorial as the custodian of the royal family’s lineage and the customs of the amaHlubi in Qumbu. It has always enjoyed the right to identify the tribe’s chief, they added. Maya found in favour of this submission. She ruled that the Hlubi Royal Family had authority to identify the chief. “It remains the custodian of the customs of the amaHlubi and their royal family’s lineage and is the sole repository of the right to identify the Chief of the amaHlubi,” Maya said in her judgment. “And it is significant that when it exercises this right, it does not consider only that the candidate is the eldest child in the great house. “It vets the potential candidate against the relevant customary law.” “It follows therefore that Chief Manzezulu had no right whatsoever to identify his successor. In that case the appellant’s expectation had no valid basis as it did not meet the trite requirements,” said Maya. She found that the Mancaphayi Royal Family was a new grouping formed to oppose appointment of a woman as a chief. “The appellant’s counsel further conceded, correctly in my view, that ... the Mancaphayi Royal Family was a recent splinter of the Hlubi Royal Family, formed by the latter’s erstwhile members who were not direct descendants of Chief Dyubhele and were opposed to having a female chief. “These concessions are devastating to the appellant’s case,” said Maya. It remains to be seen if Ludidi Ludidi will take the matter to the Constitutional Court. @BonganiNkosi87