The parents - Nonhlanhla* and Sandile* - took Perfect to Little Eden when he was three years old after struggling to take care of him at home. According to the centre’s file, Nonhlanhla* was unemployed and Sandile* was a manual labourer, which made them low-income earners. Their finances were unable to meet the needs of a child like Perfect. The Little Eden Society welcomed Perfect as part of their effort to take care of disabled children and elderly people, and today he is thriving under their care and couldn't be happier. When The Star visited the centre on Friday, Perfect - who spends most of his time in a wheelchair - was celebrating his birthday. Mix Telematics adopted him as part of their Adopted Angels Programme. They surprised him with clothes and food. Mariette Myburgh, executive for HR and transformation at Mix Telematics, described Perfect as someone who's always smiling. “We are here to celebrate Prefect’s birthday. We have adopted him as one of the angels of the Adopted Angels Programme. Our focus in socio-economic development is pretty much on children and the youth because we believe that is where the future of the country lies. We focus on issues of health and education, and this is part of the health and disability focus." Mix Telematics also hosted a birthday for him last year. The company also pays for Perfect’s stay at the centre. Myburgh said being involved in the centre had taught them a lot as a company about helping the next person. “I think what we have learnt is ‘lay a hand and make a difference’ because you are making a difference in the child’s life. When you help a child you are helping Little Eden make a difference in many lives. It changes your life as well.” Little Eden chief executive Lucy Mary Slaviero, 64, said the centre took Perfect because of his condition and they wanted to take care of him as his parents couldn’t. Little Eden was founded by Slaviero’s parents, Daniel Gorge Hyams and Domitilla Maria Rota Hyams, in 1977. It has two centres, in Edenvale and Bapsfontein. Slaviero, who has headed the centre for 22 years, said her mother always loved to serve people and give back. “My mother had a calling to do it (help people) from when she was young. She always had this calling in her to do something in service to God.” Slaviero said the centre plays an important role in society. “Little Eden is performing a very important function within society. We are caring for the most vulnerable in society, people who can’t speak for themselves and those who can’t help themselves. “Most of them don’t have family or support because most of them come from indigent families and many are abandoned,” said Slaviero. The centre recently launched the annual Little Eden Wheelchair Campaign, aimed at raising R50000 from chief executives as a form of raising awareness about disability and raising much-needed funds to help cover the cost of caring for children and adults with intellectual disabilities. March is National Intellectual Disability month, and Slaviero said Little Eden needed all the assistance. “We call for chief executives to experience some time in a wheelchair and see what it's like for people with disabilities and support Little Eden because we are caring for 300 people with intellectual disabilities and physical disabilities,” Slaviero said. She said they relied on fundraising, foundations, trusts, and asking the corporate sector and individuals to assist. The centre, which is celebrating 50 years of existence this year,  employs 260 staff and spends more than R40 million a year. Many of those they take care of spend all day in a wheelchair. They have to be bathed, fed and dressed by their carers as they are unable to do anything for themselves. Due to their level of mental functioning, they don't qualify to attend even special-needs schools. Here is how one can participate in the Wheelchair Challenge:  Visit their website - www.littleeden.org.za Fill in and submit the Little Eden Wheelchair Campaign registration form. An invoice will be sent to you to process a donation of R50000 to Little Eden. Choose any suitable work day during March to participate. Take a video of your “Day in a Wheelchair” experience and send it to info@littleeden.org.za Challenge other chief executives in your field to do the same.  For more information, contact Zai Miller on 011 609 0492 or 072 127 8237 or email zm@littleeden.org.za  @SthembisoMedia