Yesterday, the official media launch was held to bring awareness to the plight of those living with life-threatening diseases. It was also the launch of Slipper Day, which will take place on May 11. Media personality Jonathan Boynton-Lee is one of the ambassadors for the foundation. “This foundation is close to my heart. I’ve been involved with them for a few years now and they are the closest thing to angels you will ever meet. The work that they do is incredible and I have been lucky to see what they do with hospital visits,” he said. Boynton-Lee said anyone who had the chance to be part of the work the foundation did, learnt life lessons from it. “Some of the most important ones have been through the kids for their strength, tenacity and sheer stubbornness to give up despite all the odds. And to live life to the fullest. The things I have learnt have been priceless.” One child he got to know personally was a young boy by the name of Lesego, who died. “When he passed away, his parents asked me to come and speak at his funeral, which was an incredible moment for me because it was just two weeks after Simba (Mhere) had passed away. “It was heartbreaking at the time but, looking back, I got to speak at the funerals of two of my heroes,” said Boynton-Lee, who could not hold back the tears thinking about the deaths. “It’s three years now and I still can’t speak about it. It just shows you the impact that these kids have in our lives and the incredible work the foundation is doing. It is the dreams that give them hope and heal them, and I think that is an important lesson that everyone can learn.” He said the legacy he wanted to pass on to his children one day was that the only thing you could control in this life is the amount of love you choose to give out without ever expecting anything in return. Other celebrity ambassadors for the foundation include TV actress Amanda Du Pont, DJ Fresh of 5FM, Letshego Zulu, top rugby player Jesse Kriel and radio personality Poppy Ntshongwana. Shashi Naidoo, who also attended the event as an ambassador, said being part of the organisation gave her purpose. “In the industry that we are in we are so incredibly blessed. There is such abundance, and to be able to give back, and especially to a child, is what gives it meaning and gives you purpose in life. That has been an incredible blessing. “All the charities I have chosen to be involved with have involved kids, and that is a true reward. They make six dreams a day come true. There are beautiful stories of inspiration and courage and hope to a child that might not have that.” Foundation chairperson Mervyn Serebro has been with the organisation for 19 years. He lost two of his own children. “I do what I do because it helps me with my own pain. Every time we enrich a life and make the impossible possible, I’m reminded of my own children. We have never ever not fulfilled a dream, regardless of what the dream may be; simple or complex. It’s about making what children really wish for happen,” he said. Reach for a Dream helps make the dreams of children (three to 18 years) with life-threatening diseases come to life through donations from people. In partnership with Wimpy and Pick *  Pay, the Slipper Day campaign raises funds to make sure these dreams do not stop coming true. To take part in Slipper Day on May 11, buy a R10 wristband from Wimpy, Pick *  Pay or a foundation branch and wear your slippers for the whole day. Wimpy will be giving out free coffees on the day to those wearing the slippers and wristbands.