This comes as Mokonyane, the new communications minister, was slammed by Parliament last week for leaving the Water and Sanitation Ministry in a costly mess that could collapse it. Parliamentarians also resolved to “open a criminal case against the department because of the R2.9bn overdraft that the department took with the Reserve Bank”. Mokonyane’s alleged misleading remarks relate to a written reply to EFF MP Makoti Khawula about the position of the chief financial officer (CFO) at Magalies Water (MW), a state-owned entity (SOE), where Mokonyane said the position was vacant after the former CFO resigned on August 31 last year. But a four-month investigation has reliably established that: The former CFO resigned on July 24 after a fallout with the entity’s executives over alleged tender irregularities she refused to be party to The CFO position is currently being outsourced to a service provider, Sondlo Chartered Accountants (SCA), which has allegedly been receiving over R100000 a month since September; and The service provider’s contract was supposed to assist only with the finalisation of financial statements until October, which has not happened. The former CFO declined to comment for fear of victimisation. In Mokonyane’s reply to Khawula, she said the post at Magalies Water was, at the time, being filled by Sandile Mkhize in an acting position, but failed to mention that Nolubabalo Sondlo was the entity’s interim CFO. Sondlo is the founding director of SCA and was previously employed at Magalies Water as a financial manager until February 2016, where, according to  highly placed sources within the SOE, she began consultancy work for the entity, including a human resources audit where she audited her own work. In July last year, the SOE asked for consultants to assist the former CFO “with preparation of financial statements”, where Sondlo’s company was appointed effective from August 14 to October 31. This was according to an appointment letter, which The Star has seen. Sondlo has continued providing services to Magalies Water and allegedly receives over R100000 a month, according to several sources within the entity. An invoice seen by The Star and signed by Mkhize in September showed the service provider billing the SOE for R101142.51, and sources close to the proceedings maintained this had been going on for several months. Company director Sondlo referred to herself as “interim CFO” to Auditor-General Kimi Makwetu in a September response seen by The Star, which Mokonyane failed to mention to Khawula. Water and Sanitation spokesperson Sputnik Ratau said the department was still finalising a response and expected to brief the media “by today”. Magalies Water spokesperson Lovemore Mushayanyama said the entity “emphatically denies” that it gave Mokonyane false information, adding that the entity’s former CFO gave a 24-hour resignation notice on July 31, which was only concluded on August 8 after negotiations. This, however, was repudiated by a reliable source, who said the former CFO resigned on July 24 and gave a week’s notice after refusing to sign off an allegedly dubious tender during a bid adjudication committee. “How can the former CFO’s resignation be accepted in August when she started her new job on the first of that month?” the source asked. Sources within Magalies Water said Sondlo’s current position was “irregular” and in violation of Treasury regulations, as her brief was to assist with financial statements, which has since lapsed. Mushayanyama maintained that Magalies Water “will continue performing its duties as per Treasury regulations”, without responding to the alleged violations and “irregular” appointment. Last month, Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane found that former public enterprises minister Lynne Brown “inadvertently” misled Parliament regarding contractual issues at Eskom. It emerged that she was supplied false information by executives at the power utility. @khayakoko88 The Star