The area outside the store was turned into a mini fair as celebrities, influencers and fashion bloggers gathered to celebrate the new line of edgy and chic clothing. Boutique owner Niki Breger said she loves winter because it allows a lot of layering. “With summer, less is more and there is not much scope to change up your look. The colder months have boots, which allow funky different looks. And the fabrics available are incredible.” Breger has 14 walk-in stores and one online store. “Winter will be the most stunning season because we have lots of options. It’s going to be a rich and artisanal kind of season where garments are embellished and embroidered, sequinned and studded. “There are key pieces like the oriental trend, which is big at the moment. So beautiful kimonos and jackets with a slight Japanese feel, prints, florals, checks and stripes.” Breger added that you could never go wrong with a timeless biker jacket and denim. Performance creator and trend setter Manthe Ribane was also at the event. “I love the geometric look - geometric fabric with structured pieces like those of Rick Owens (designer). I really love velvet, it’s effortlessly powerful but also warm and good for winter. It’s experimental as well, because of the reflection of the fabric.” The one item Ribane thinks everyone should have this winter season is a beret. “Everyone should have a matching beret for a polo neck. That’s a classic look that will never bore you, and it’s simple and powerful. “To finish off your look, always have a beautiful fragrance to go with it.” Media personality Poppy Ntshongwana used her DJ skills to keep the music flowing at the event. She said she was excited to see the Wakanda trend gain momentum. “I am seeing massive African trends and Wakanda (fantasy setting of the Black Panther movie) infusion in international trends. It has done a great job of putting us on the global map from hair to make-up to fashion. “Watch 2019, I think there is going to be a lot of Africa in the fashion weeks, which will be great for us. Let’s just hope our African designers are there and ready for the spotlight.” Ntshongwana said the trends she expected to see for the coming season included big coats and vegan leather. “We don’t get a lot of winter here for the big coats, so I would go for lots of vegan leather - that’s always amazing in cold climates. “Colour-wise, I think a lot of pastels and nudes work around this time of the year.”  @mane_mpi 