In sworn affidavits filed for their urgent application at the high court in Pretoria, sex workers alleged members of the Primrose community policing forum (CPF) assaulted them and chased them with dogs, snakes and cars. They sought an order interdicting the CPF members from “systematically and unlawfully assaulting” them. The assault campaign was ostensibly part of the CPF’s operation known as #TakeBackOurPrimrose. Judge Cassim Sardiwalla called legal representatives of both parties to his chambers on Tuesday, where he directed them to work out a solution to their clients’ dispute. Negotiations were on Wednesday still under way between the CPF and the Sex Workers Education and Advocacy Taskforce (Sweat), the NGO representing sex workers. “The judge said sex workers do have rights, but the community members also do,” Sweat’s attorney, Stacey-Leigh Manoek, told The Star. “We’re busy negotiating a settlement which will be made an order of court on Friday.” In her affidavit, Sweat’s acting director, Jayne Arnott, said they sought an interdict because the assaults were becoming rampant. “Levels of violence perpetrated against sex workers are extremely high, and in the Primrose area, are escalating due to Operation #TakeBackOurPrimrose,” said Arnott. “In bringing this application, Sweat seeks to protect the physical inviolability of sex workers in the Primrose area. “The matter concerns the right of sex workers to be free from all forms of violence from either public or private sources.” In their affidavits, several sex workers recounted attacks by CPF members. “In many instances when we are chased away by CPF, we leave the area, but they will continue to hunt us down even into our homes, chase us with dogs, snakes and cars,” said one. “The members of CPF threaten to drive us over with their cars, threaten to kill us, swear at us even when it is apparent that we are not conducting any business.” CPF members now identified sex workers because they had a meeting with them, said the worker. “At the meeting we provided them with the details they requested of us, and the CPF promised that they would within five months find us jobs, but this never materialised.” A 28-year-old sex worker said an angry CPF member recently tried to run her over. “He ended up driving on the pavement at speed trying to drive me over. “The man insulted me and told me that he does not want to see me on his street or in his community.” Said another sex worker: “A white male came to me in a car and he had a snake that he threatened to hurt me with. I was afraid and believed he would hurt me with the snake.” A CPF lawyer denied the structure was terrorising sex workers. “Those allegations are false.” He said #TakeBackOurPrimrose was not only targeting sex workers, but all crimes. “We’ve got pictures where they sit with open legs without panties on. They urinate and throw condoms. What they are doing is unlawful.” The lawyer confirmed the negotiations with Sweat. “The judge also directed Sweat lawyers to speak to their clients and arrange times when they are not allowed to work. “This would be when kids are going to and from school in the morning and afternoons.” @BonganiNkosi87