The Moroccan-French journalist started her career in her home country at a daily magazine that was shut down by the government  in 2010 because of its political reporting. El Rhazoui then moved to France, where she thought her professional career would improve. Instead, she worked for the controversial Charlie Hebdo, where she wrote the text for the comic strip that depicted the life of Prophet Muhammad. While El Rhazoui was in Morocco, the publication was attacked. Twelve of her colleagues were killed and 11 injured when two brothers stormed their offices in 2015. Since then, El Rhazoui has lived under police protection. on Tuesday, she was one of the journalists from around the world who highlighted  the threat to media freedom and expression. El Rhazoui warned that by buckling under pressure and allowing groups like those who don’t want depictions of Prophet Muhammad to dictate to journalists, the media could be falling into a censorship trap. “We cannot allow certain groups to dictate to us,”she said. El Rhazoui still works as a journalist in France, but under heavy police guard because of threats to her life. “I am under police protection. As a reporter, I used to travel to meet different communities but now it is difficult to do that when you are surrounded by armed policemen. It is a strange situation for me, because usually police and journalists don’t like each other. “After the terrorist attack, I try to do my job differently. “I learnt to do journalism in Morocco. In order to do your job (in Morocco), you become a fighter and someone who is literally harassed by the regime,” El Rhazoui pointed out. Palestinian writer Iyad el-
Baghdadi was expelled from the United Arab Emirates (UAE), where he had lived most of his life, after the Arab Spring in 2011. During the Arab Spring, el-
Baghdadi spent about four months on his laptop translating videos from violence erupting in the Arab world from Arabic to English. As a result, he was expelled from the UAE and is now in exile in Norway. El-Baghdadi said dictatorships had now discovered the use of social media to spread their messages, and this was one of the threats to media freedom. He argued that oppressive regimes can use fake news on social media to spread their messages, while making users doubt journalists’ work. “I call it censorship 2.0. The governments have discovered social media, and this means a new level of hiding and spreading false information,” el-Baghdadi said.  @TebogoMonama  