The unveiling of the healthcare centre offers medical help to about 400 Ferrero staff, their children, and extended family members free of charge. The director of the Walkerville Ferrero factory, Emiliano Camerlengo, said: “We will be able to strengthen and better the mandatory occupational healthcare services which were previously provided to our workers at a small infirmary within our plant. “At the same time, and more importantly, we will also be dispensing primary healthcare services that will be accessible not only to our workers, but also to their children and family members. This way, the scope of this project extends beyond the perimeter of our plant and seeks to benefit, more broadly, the local community at large,” said Camerlengo. The healthcare service aims to extend to the wider community in the long term, and will be free for Ferrero workers. The general manager of Ferrero SA, Giacomo Ferrero, said the healthcare centre would have a nurse and a doctor on call and/or on site every working day at all hours of the day. Ferrero said: “We are a confectionery company and this is the first time we have undertaken in South Africa a social project of such nature in the healthcare sector. That is why we will have to rely on the expertise of qualified health-care professionals assisting us to run this project. We will be implementing this project gradually, step by step. “In the short term we will be providing free healthcare assistance only to our staff and their family members. “After implementing the first pilot phase, based on the experiences gained and the responses obtained from the people accessing our services, we will be in a better position to assess how to proceed further.  One should not forget that we have obtained the authorisation from the local public authorities to operate a private medical facility only for our staff and their families. In other words, we are not operating a public health clinic.” The facility has been built on the grounds of the international chocolate production plant, and will be officially opened by Italian ambassador to South Africa, Pietro Giovanni Donnici; Gauteng health MEC representative Solly Cave; and the chief executive of the Nelson Mandela Foundation, Sello Hatang. Ferrero told The Star it would be a fitting and jubilant tribute to the family-owned business’s humanitarian and social spirit. “This inspired the creation in South Africa, Cameroon, and India of the MFEP, named in honour of its founding father, who passed away in 2015. “MFEP has a twofold mission: to create jobs in less advantaged areas of emerging countries to fight the serious consequences of unemployment; and to implement humanitarian and social projects aimed at safeguarding the health, education and social development of children and young people in the communities where the project operates,” said Ferrero. “To this purpose, each company engaged in the MFEP commits itself to create a local social fund utilised on a three-year basis to fund social initiatives, regardless of whether it succeeds in making a profit.” @Zwane_2li2ls