In 2016, when Dyosini was reading for her honours in language literacy and literature, she decided to start a campaign called #SeeYouAtGraduation to encourage herself and her peers to graduate. “I was doing my honours full-time with my friends. We were struggling because it was a different structure and academic level to what we have done in undergrad. We felt we were diving into the deep end. “I started a WhatsApp group and we decided to call it #SeeYouAtGraduation because we said: You know what, guys, we are all struggling, we can’t do this, we all have to support each other and help each other through this year. “It doesn’t matter what happens, I am going to see you at graduation. We came here to graduate; we didn’t come here to play games or do other things.” Dyosini, 26, who is doing her PhD in leadership and management in education, said after some time she decided to make coffee mugs and sell them on campus with the aim of spreading the message beyond the WhatsApp group. “It was very important for us to start it. We needed something tangible that we could see every day and give the motivation needed. I took that idea #SeeYouAtGraduation and decided to create these coffee mugs. I saw a gap. I want to inspire other students. So I started posting them on social media, Instagram, Twitter and Facebook,” she said. #SeeYouAtGraduation is often used by students who recently graduated or during graduation ceremonies. Dyosini said since she started the campaign, there has been a great social media buzz. “I started seeing people tagging me and telling me ‘you know what, I am really struggling with my degree’ or ‘I have been studying for so long. I am not graduating on record time but your #SeeYouAtGraduation motto has encouraged me to work hard’. “Some would tell me, ‘You know, what your #SeeYouAtGraduation motto has helped me to get here even though I was not visible on social media and I am not as vocal as you are, but I took it to heart’. “When I started selling the mugs, a lot of people bought the mugs. I think I sold about 100 mugs if not more. I was selling each mug for R150,” said Dyosini. Dyosini, who grew up in a back room in Saxonwold where her mother was a domestic worker, said she never thought she would be teacher. “I don’t think I realised that I liked academics for a long time, but it started back when I was in primary school, I loved reading. When I got into high school, I was not into academia like I used to be in primary. When I got into matric, I realised that you need to go somewhere with this studying thing. “It needs to take you somewhere. Now you need to start building a career. You need to start thinking about the future. “I started to be more serious because I knew I needed marks that would take me to university”. Dyosini said she initially wanted to study marketing. “I never thought about my career choice. So, initially when I matriculated, I wanted to study a degree in marketing but I didn’t have enough points to do the marketing degree. So then I was left with my second choice, which was education, and my intention has always been to do it for a year and then transfer to the marketing department. It never happened because when I got into education, when I was doing the teaching practicals, I did so well. I was a natural, I didn’t know that I could teach and that I was a natural leader. “I know how to share knowledge; I know how to be a teacher, and these things started coming out. The next thing I knew, it was graduation,” she said. The Soweto-born woman is also a part-time lecturer at Wits, teaching third and fourth years in the foundation phase study literacy. Dyosini said that at first she was scared, but now she was comfortable. “I started being a lecturer this year. At first I was very nervous. Some of the students are my age and some of them are older. They are students I started undergrad with and now they are back in university to finish their degree and I am teaching them. It was one of those humbling experiences,” she said. Dyosini said being a lecturer at a very young age has given her an opportunity to be “a breath of fresh air”. “The feedback I am getting is that I am relevant and I am coming to them at their level. They can relate. “I fell I am a breath of fresh air. As difficult as it is at times, as long as I prepare and go there with the intention to teach, things get better.” Dyosini noted that academics “is a real thing. It is an actual career". “Sometimes in life you have to look into the bigger picture. If you have an interest in taking academia as a career, you can do it. “Whatever you do, you have to have the intention why you do it,” she said. @SthembisoMedia