This was after the learners at Morris Isaacson High School made noise and refused to listen to a talk that the foundation and actor Sello Maake KaNcube had laid on for them yesterday. Unable to take it any longer, the irritated KaNcube upped and left. When the foundation realised that they were not going to be listened to, they too upped and left. The foundation’s communications officer Zaakirah Vadi said the school had let them down. “From the Kathrada Foundation, we would like to express our disappointment in the school’s management. For us it is unfortunate that the teachers and the principal of such a historic school, because of its links to 1976 (uprising), show the lack of interest in the programme,” Vadi said. Morris Isaacson was one of the schools chosen to kick-off the campaign that aims to root out racism. KaNcube was scheduled to give a talk about racism at the school at 11am but could not due to “lack of co-operation” from the teachers and the learners. KaNcube arrived at the school on time and waited for the learners to be gathered at the assembly. A few made their way to the assembly after hearing a school bell but showed no interest to hear what KaNcube had to say. Not even the teachers were interested. Vadi said they had initially made an arrangement with the school that the talk would take place at 11am. “They agreed to us coming there and meeting the learners. So what we can say is that  the school has missed the opportunity to hear the message of encouraging young people to report and act against racism,” she said. The school’s headmaster, Steven Khanyile, said he took full responsibility for the incident at his school. “The teachers did not go to support. The main reason is that I didn’t inform them in time. I am not sure why they didn’t come closer. Those few that I asked, they failed to control the learners. “By the time I got there, it was too late because they tried to address them. Some were keen and willing to listen but there was a lot of noise,” Khanyile said. One of the learners, who refused to be named, said he was disappointed that the teachers failed to gather all of them. “This shows that there is lack of communication in the school. How can a prominent person come to our school and he ends up not doing what he was supposed to do? This is a shame and I am disappointed.” Another learner said although the school did not have other races, she would have loved to know more about racism. “I have never experienced racism in my life, but my parents did during apartheid. I wanted to hear what he (KaNcube) was going to say. I have seen a lot of videos on social media  about racism and I believe it needs to be stopped.” Koketso Magagwa, 15, said he has experienced discrimination at school because he is an albino. “Learners used to make fun of my skin colour. They used to tease me and treat me differently. At first it used to affect me, but I have managed to overcome that. I have learnt not to pay attention to them with their negative comments,” Koketso said. Khanyile said he and his staff would meet today to review the matter. Despite the incident, the foundation still visited other schools in Gauteng. @SthembisoMedia