The celebrations will be marked by a variety of exciting daily activities in the zoo throughout the month, meant to promote the accessibility of the zoo to all the diverse people of our beautiful city, Nonhlanhla Sifumba, the City of Joburg’s MMC for community development says. A day at the zoo includes, among others, an exciting daily programme of viewing animals during their enrichment interactions with the curators and during feeding times. To mark March as a special month, the Joburg Zoo will also host a carnival-themed birthday party on March 11 where visitors are encouraged to dress up in costumes of their favourite furry friends and to participate in the monthly #ZooTrot while enjoying a piece of the gigantic birthday cake to mark the 114th birthday celebrations, she says. “The birthday celebration events are also a way of encouraging residents to get involved in protecting the welfare of animals.” Some of the ways residents can make the birthday extra special among others are by: Visiting the zoo with the entire family. All gate takings go towards the caring and feeding of animals. The zoo caters for all age groups. Joining  a #HeritageTour to see how the zoo has evolved over the 114 years. Bringing along a treat for the animals to mark the #ZooBirthdayWish. Encouraging corporates to #AdoptAnimals. Respecting the animals and protecting the environment by refraining from littering in the Zoo.Engaging with the #JoburgZoo on its social media platforms to showcase #FamilyFun while contributing to conservation education. In addition, an action-packed #EarthHour is planned for March 24 where visitors can wear their glow-in-the-dark costumes and join in the fun to increase awareness of the importance of conservation, to nurture a sustainable planet. “The zoo is one of the ways that the city raises revenue for the upkeep of our man-made jungle, which offers fun and entertainment for the whole family. “The management and staff at the zoo have worked tirelessly to make the zoo one of the best attractions that Joburg has to offer,” Sifumba says . The zoo now has a new restaurant called The Stages which is a collaboration with Joburg City Theatres. The zoo is also among the few zoos globally that offer the #Big Five encounter. Added to this, it is centrally located within the city and is easily accessible by public transport. Motorists have also been catered for through the extended parkade that can take up to 700 cars. “I wish to see large numbers of people, including tourists, flocking to what is becoming one of the major tourists attractions not only in Joburg, but in South Africa as a whole,” Sifumba says. The Johannesburg Heritage Foundation is also offering a tour of the zoo which starts at the parkade at 9.45am to get a lift on the tractor. The heritage tours are offered every Saturday and Sunday morning in March. They are led by specially trained tour leaders who will be recounting the story of the zoo, starting with the donation of the Hermann Eckstein Park and Percy Fitzpatrick’s little menagerie. The tour is a two-hour walk passing the old cages which evolve into enclosures, the statue of Max the heroic 
gorilla, the bear pits which have been converted to delightful adventure spaces for monkeys, past the bandstand into the farm, ending at the old tearoom which is now the Education Centre, with a view across the Howitzer to the Angel of Peace surmounting the SA National Anglo Boer War Memorial. Thanks to the huge trees, says the Heritage Foundation, the walk is mostly in the shade. If anyone has memories to share and old photographs of outings to the zoo, they should take them along too. When the tour ends, participants are welcome to spend the day in the zoo or wander down to the restaurant for lunch.  Bookings can be made at 0114823349.  @ANNACOX 