The council passed a resolution for the precautionary suspension of Lusanda Madikizela as head of the department during a recent closed-door council meeting. Madikizela faces suspension over the spiralling costs of the construction of two taxi ranks in the city. City manager Dr Imogen Mashazi had asked Madikizela to provide reasons why she should not be suspended over her role in the scandal. She gave Madikizela seven days to explain why she should not be placed on suspension. Mashazi in her report said the Vosloorus rank was meant to cost the metro R18million over eight months. However, four years later the incomplete structure had cost ratepayers R54m. The costs of the Bluegum rank had also ballooned from an initial R14m. Madikizela in her 11-page response, a copy of which The Star has seen, describes the allegations against her as “baseless and absurd”, saying the decision to suspend her was based on a “fallacious report”. She said both projects had started in 2014, three years before she joined the metro in February last year. Ekurhuleni spokesperson Themba Gadebe confirmed that Mashazi had received Madikizela’s response as per the deadline she was given. “However, we will not engage on issues she raised in her response because the matter in its entity remains under investigation,” he said. MMC for transport and planning Petrus Mabunda yesterday confirmed that the department had prepared responses for the council meeting, but was unable to present it as per the mayor Mzwandile Masina’s request. Madikizela has accused Mashazi of abusing council processes to get rid of her. Madikizela said she was not against being investigated, but demanded that the process be conducted externally. This, she said, was “due to the undue influence on the activities of the internal audit” in the initial investigation. She alleged she was aware that an investigation by the internal audit’s initial probe was not accepted. “ Because they had to find me at fault. “They (investigators) are being put under (pressure) to ensure the investigation work for the purposes of finding me at fault,” her response reads. “I submit that the investigation should and must be conducted by an external and independent party, and also presented to independent assessors prior to being finalised, and then presented to the city.” In this way, “fairness and transparency” would be guaranteed “and the risk of undue influence minimised”, she said. Madikizela said internal disciplinary procedures against her were being “instituted ma-
liciously based on improper motives in-
tended to harass (me) and engineered to ensure” her removal. “When they advised me that an independent and more detailed investigation be undertaken, you stated that you had no time, and that you needed to have something to present to council urgently. “This informal meeting took place on January 24 in the mayor’s parlour. “This was just outside the venue of the mayoral committee, wherein allegations against me were discussed,” she alleged. Madikizela said she was aware of an affidavit which stated that an intermediary had been tasked by Mashazi to present her with the option of resigning by January 29 with three months’ salary as a severance package “or face relentless and unwavering attacks on your integrity and reputation”. She added: “I refuse to give in to intimidation. “Your first attempt to discredit me failed at a mayoral committee meeting in January. “The second attempt in this crusade was the report presented to the council meeting on February 22, which has now resulted in this notice to suspend me,” she said.  @Sihle_MG  