Gauteng Premier David Makhura recently awarded Mthembu the Game Changer Award for her excellent work in the Tshwane region and other parts of Gauteng. Mthembu, 60, who was also a finalist in the Women in Leadership category, has a deep passion for education. The Soweto-born educator started the Grade 12 Learners and Parents Programme in 2016 that aims to bridge the gap between parents and learners. The outspoken Mthembu said over the years there has been an improvement in how parents relate and help their children with their school work. She said one of the reasons she decided to start the programme was because she saw a great need for parents to get involved in their children’s lives. “Through the programme, I have been able to remove the myth that parents actually don’t care about their children’s education. “Before we start the programme, I make the learners take the pledge in front of their parents. The pledge aims to show commitment from the learner and that they will work hard with the help of their parents to achieve good marks at the end of every term,” said Mthembu. The programme which runs on weekends in different parts of the Gauteng province focuses on study tools and also constantly monitors the child’s progress. “At the beginning of the first term I start the programme. “In term two we review the results of first term and give the parents and learners more skills for term two so they are able to perform well because it is very important for them to apply to university. In term three after analysing the second term’s results, I then prepare them for the preliminary exams because that will assist them with their final exams. “But the beauty of it [the programme] as well is that it gives parents an opportunity to understand how their child performs and how they should be supported. It also strengthens the relationship between the parents, learners and the school,” said Mthembu, who started her education career in 1982 teaching history and English at Emndeni Secondary School. Since its inception in Tshwane, Pretoria, Mthembu said the programme has been adopted by the other education districts in Gauteng. “The Grade 12 Learners and Parents Programme has been adopted by the province where every regional chief director is expected to run these workshops with parents. “It makes me happy. It has also been adopted by my church [Old Apostolic Church]. They are starting it from Grade 11. “I also work across the province. I have already done Alexandra, Cosmo City, Orlando, Dube, Meadowlands, Dobsonville, Protea North, South and Glen and Mapetla. I am now going to be doing Katlehong at Goba Street on 7 April,” she said. Mthembu who has BA degree (history and English), a national diploma in education from the University of Zululand and BA Honours (English, African literature) from the University of Pretoria, attributes the success of the programme to its unique approach to academics. “It’s about the methodology on how learners should conduct themselves in terms of their subject matter but the report cards are also very important. The programme has a unique approach in helping parents to understand the link between the child’s term by term report card, the performance, daily attendance and all time tables. “In my view, because of what I have seen in my region, when it started, I would actually have a section once but now I have two sessions per day. “The venues are always full to capacity. But now I have had to look into other dates because I am unable to fit parents in. “Parents are able to see visible changes in their children towards their approach and attitude to school work,” said Mthembu. Parents who want to participate in the programme can email Zanele on Zanele.Mthembu2@gauteng.gov.za  @SthembisoMedia 