The vibrant Vivo Nation Festival saw fans of the Volkswagen brand, both young and old, come out in full support of a weekend of good food and music.
Performers at the event included Shekinah, Black Motion, Kwesta and Cassper Nyovest. Lady Zamar, whose voice has captured many South African house music fans, also came to the party, dressed in bright colours. “I like to be involved with brands that I can identify with. I own a VW, so this was a beautiful experience, the whole journey to this day; everything that has happened until now has been awesome.” The songstress behind the hits Charlotte, Mamelodi and My Baby said that this year was about sharing more music with her fans. “I have 18 tracks on my album, and people don’t know even half of the tracks, so we are trying to put out as much as we can. “It took a long time to finish this album - two-and-a-half years to write it, and a year to record it took, so there’s no way I’m going to skip it.” There are still many music videos Lady Zamar plans to release from the album, and she is also working on a documentary. “I also have concerts lined up. A lot of people heard me perform live for the first time with the Feel Good Live Sessions. I want to have more-intimate sessions with my fans, not just in Gauteng but all over South Africa, as I really love performing live. I want it to be my voice, my fans and explaining the music to them.” The Love is Blind singer said her music was a form of healing for her. “Each song is different, and people identify with the ones they relate to. We have all gone through the exact same things. “I know the frustrations I feel, and the joys and love aren’t foreign. We all share a common story.” The Vivo Nation event was a two-day musical experience where festival-goers could also enjoy different games, speed dating and chances to win prizes. Doowap, an urban creative, was on the line-up for her DJ skills.  “I like the fact that Vivo is a South African car. It’s not going to be made overseas, so I’m about that vibe and doing things differently, but also being true to home.” Doowap, whose real name is Khetsiwe Morgan, is re- inventing her brand and dropping “DJ” from her stage name. “I want to be a whole performance artist. I don’t want to be a DJ only, as it boxes me in and there are so may things I want to do. “I want to do visuals, my own music, dancing and fashion. There are so many elements to me than just being a DJ.” For her set at the festival at the weekend, Doowap kept it strictly local - a mix of kwaito and gqom music to get the crowd going. “I’m trying to push gqom internationally, because they are craving it but there aren’t enough people doing it there.” She has started the year off well, booking gigs like the Igoda Music Circuit and the Cape Town Electronic Music Festival. “I’ve also taken up acting classes to branch out of myself. With acting you forget who you are and become a character, so I want to embody Doowap, and acting is going to help me channel my deep goddess.” The head of the Volkswagen brand, Carla Wentzel, said the Vivo was about sharing the ride with South Africa. “We have a really busy year and lots of new cars.People love the car because it is well engineered, built to protect and a fun to drive brand.” The event was hosted by the sultry Lalla Hirayama and lively Smash Afrika.  @mane_mpi 