Thursday marked International Women’s Day, and in Ekurhuleni, corporate company Aberdare Cables reminded women of their capabilities. More than 20 women from various backgrounds were given an exclusive workshop on how to protect their wealth and build their networks in the male-dominated industry. “I am capable. I am successful and I am a money-
making machine,” the women chanted, repeatedly. Aberdare Cables in Germiston invited women who own businesses in the oil, solar and energy sector to acknowledge their excellent work. Held under the theme “Women in the energy sector united in stimulating economic growth, development and job creation”, the Women in Oil and Energy South Africa (WOESA), Aberdare Cables and Ekurhuleni Aeropreneurs were excited to celebrate the international day. Ntathakusa Mosia, the owner of Lefa La Basia Trading, a rail industry company, said it was the first time she had heard of the cable company. “What was interesting for me was that they were promoting women empowerment like government but there is not a lot of women working in their factories. Most of the ladies are in the office doing administrative work,” Mosia said. She said her journey as an entrepreneur started in 2015 when she left her job with transport company Transnet. “I found it extremely difficult to be in an industry that is male- and white-dominated, and I find that the parastatals like Transnet, still don’t trust that the female- and black-owned companies could provide and supply services. “You also get the male condescending attitude and they look at you as a kid, and they don’t realise that behind the physical there is a brain.” Ekurhuleni Aeropreneurs representative Nolwazi Serero said their role was to promote women-owned businesses in order to build capacity at different levels. Serero said: “On this International Women’s Day, we intend to galvanise women in the energy sector to take advantage of the new opportunities presented in the sector and play a meaningful role in promoting economic growth and development through adequate investment in energy infrastructure and provision of quality energy services that is competitively priced, reliable and efficient.” Pearl Marudu, a member of the Vosloorus Women in Business Forum, said she was grateful for the opportunity to be celebrated. She said the forum was for women who were starting up and growing their businesses. WOESA representative Trinity Mashego told The Star that the non-profit organisation was glad to interact with women from the energy and engineering industry. “We get corporates that say they don’t meet their target in terms of procuring from women-owned businesses because they don’t know where those women are,” Mashego said. @Zwane_2li2ls