Teachers have, over recent years, lambasted the National Curriculum and Assessment Policy, or Caps -as the curriculum is known- for demanding more assessment and less teaching time. Caps was introduced in 2011 and the teachers have complained that the curriculum robs learners of an opportunity to grasp the taught content. Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga has now given the public 21 days to comment on the curriculum amendment she is proposing. Her document was clear that she was not gunning for an overhaul of the curriculum this time around, but sought to review sections of Caps. Elijah Mhlanga, Motshekga’s spokesperson, said the amendments were part of a drive to improve teaching and learning. “We have been monitoring Caps and analysing its performance since its introduction,” said Mhlanga. “The idea is to strengthen the curriculum and make improvements as we continue with its implementation.” Unions have told The Star that Motshekga’s proposals were a welcome response to teachers’ frustration. “Many teachers feel the curriculum is overloaded. That is a bigger issue,” said Basil Manuel, executive director of the National Professional Teachers Organisation (Naptosa). “The curriculum demands that more time should be spent on assessing than on teaching. “Naptosa and other unions felt that this is where the problem lies with learners’ performance. We’re assessing too much and teaching too little. “If you only test, yet you’re teaching a subject like physical science and you never do experiments, you’re robbing the children. What we have now seeks to address those things,” Manuel said. A teacher recently vented her frustration on Facebook about Caps. Reacting to the planned amendments, she said: “This curriculum has me livid. It is obvious that if you place too much content into a curriculum, children will not have the time to (grasp) a solid foundation of the concepts taught,” she said. “Teachers are struggling to complete the immense amount of content in class - it is being set as homework tasks. “Children are already overburdened with homework and this extra work.” The National Teachers Union (Natu) welcomed Motshekga’s proposals. Its deputy president, Allan Thompson, told The Star that the department was  trying to reduce the curriculum load as teachers had been complaining about it. He said this exercise of reviewing sections of Caps was better than implementing a new curriculum. “We’re no longer interested in the introduction of a new curriculum. “The curriculum has been overhauled far too many times since 1994, leaving teachers paralysed,” said Thompson. “Teachers no longer had confidence to go to the classroom. They found themselves becoming fools in front of children.We no longer want to expose them to something that they do not know.” The amendments would also “reduce the administration that’s done by teachers so that they spend more time in the classroom”, said Thompson. @BonganiNkosi87