The school has not yet been named. Speaking to The Star, one parent said the teacher had been terrorising her daughter for a while and this culminated in him touching her buttocks last week. According to the mother, the teacher touched the child’s buttocks and asked her to touch his penis. She ran away. “He usually would tell the child that he wants to see her after school regarding her school work. A number of times, he has not been able to see her because her transport would arrive and she would have to leave. “One time he told my child to wait in his car and he would take her home. While in the car alone, she got scared and ran away.” The mother said she was at a funeral in Limpopo last week when she got a call that her child had been touched inappropriately by the teacher. Another parent said her daughter and another girl got into a fight while skipping rope. “He then called my daughter and told her to apologise to the other child. He then asked my daughter if she likes him and she said yes. He then asked to shake her hand. He then took her hand and rubbed his private parts.” It is alleged the teacher abused at least nine pupils in Grades 4 to 7. On Wednesday, Sandringham police spokesperson Captain Mohlaume Mamabolo confirmed that two cases of sexual assault had been opened against the teacher. Mamabolo said no one had been arrested yet and the cases were being investigated by the Family, Child and Sexual Offences unit at Gallo Manor. On the other hand, the parents accused the school of protecting the accused teacher. “The principal is covering up for the teacher. On Monday when I asked where he was, I was told that he was not at school because he is sick. The district office also said they couldn’t do anything because he is employed by the school governing body (SGB)," the parent said. It is believed the teacher started working at the Sandton school at the beginning of the year as a substitute for a colleague on maternity leave. Once the teacher came back from maternity leave, the accused was hired on an SGB position. It is alleged the same teacher was fired from another Sandton primary school for the same offence. Gauteng Education spokesperson Steve Mabona confirmed they were investigating the matter. “This is to confirm that we have also launched an investigation into the circumstances that led to his departure from the previous school and his subsequent appointment at the current one. Both schools’ management must respond accordingly,” Mabona said. He also said the department had instructed the current school to terminate the teacher’s employment contract with immediate effect. Mabona said they had sent his details to the SA Council of Educators for further investigation. He said schools should be safe environments for learners. “We will never allow any educator or official to abuse our children at our schools,” he stressed. Mabona said the affected learners were receiving counselling.