Eichhoff was part of the group of professionals in attendance at the launch of the Tahona Society Collective Spirit Project by Altos tequila last month that saw the brand launch the sustainability competition in Maboneng. Its aim was to inspire the local bartender community to create their own sustainable, best practice project, with the winners taking home $50000 (R724 000). The Altos brand are known around the world to use the best methods to make their products and have been enforcing sustainable practices in the bar industry that are unique and innovative, as sustainability is what is going to grow the industry, provide employment and support talent from previously disadvantaged backgrounds. Eichhoff is on the road to doing just that through her part ownership of the Cape Town European Bar School. Her career in the bar-tending industry started at university while she was still doing internships and studying event management. “The one that stood out the most was with a mobile bar company Thirst Bar Services in Cape Town:. the fact that you could make drinks, entertain people and still be able to have that event-management practice along with it. When I was done studying they offered me a job as a staff manager and I took it.” As a staff manager she felt she didn't have the authority or respect to be able to tell bartenders what they needed to do, so she took it upon herself to learn the skills of bar-tending. “I needed to be on the same level as them and learn the same skills. I fell in love with the concept. I loved being behind the bar and making drinks.” After four years working there she was approached by flair expert Jay du Toit, who had been running a school in London and would allow her to become a better trainer and bartender. In 2015 she partnered with Du Toit and Tom Dyer after they wanted to open the Cape Town European Bar School. “It was a big thing to make the decision. I was a general manager at the time and had many accounts. It was either I make the decision to move forward or settle. "I have always wanted to be in the education side of bar-tending. This was a new path and step in my career.” The school is a global franchise with 26 branches all over the world. Each school is tailored around the area it is in, and teaches people how to become a world-class bartender. “Bar-tending is a career you can take and travel the world, and be recognised for this craft. We need more educational sessions, master classes and workshops powered by brands to get the message across.” Eichhoff noted that being a woman in the industry was more about advocating for equality. “I don't like to see myself as the only female, I want to step away from that stigma - I support the future is female, but in this industry all I really want is for there to be equality. At the moment we have an advantage because all the bar owners are looking for women to join the industry because we think differently. We pay attention to detail and know how we want things to be portrayed. Women must be hired for what they know and the experience the can learn and give.” A craft like bar-tending will never go out of fashion, she believes. “People drink when they are happy and drink when they are sad. If you think about it, bar-tending is a timeless profession, it will never fall out,” she said. Right now her focus is on expanding to the rest of Africa, as markets in Nigeria, Ghana and Kenya are booming. “Everyone is pushing for African mixology. We need to pull up our socks and show what we are made of and stay true to ourselves. Africa is an amazing space to be in. South Africa is amazing. Many of our students come back when they finish their course wanting to do more in the country, and I feel that's how I'm contributing because I can't stand behind the bar as often. My aim is a little different now. I am proud of myself for being able to achieve that.” The Tahona Society competition will judge entries based on five categories: bartender welfare, social engagement, upcycling and recycling, resources and waste, as well as environment (flora and fauna).