Johannesburg - More legal woes have befallen Mcebo Dlamini after Prophet Paseka “Mboro” Motsoeneng laid charges against the #FeesMustFall activist and other members of a WhatsApp group. Motsoeneng accuses Dlamini and some members of the WhatsApp group, made up of prominent public figures, for allegedly calling him a devil, a false prophet and a thug. The Incredible Happenings Ministry leader went to the Alberton Police Station on Thursday to open a case of crimen injuria, harassment, intimidation and defamation of character against Dlamini, attorney Bophelo Malaphelo and others in the Open Politics (OP) WhatsApp group. Motsoeneng was in the group but was removed on Tuesday. Motsoeneng told his supporters OP members called his mother a pig and alleged that women in his church were instructed to take off their underwear and lift them up while he prayed for their genitals. “You can imagine, we’ve got old and young people in our church. What type of a church is that where a prophet will order women to undress?” Motsoeneng added that he and prophet Shepherd Bushiri were also called devils and con artists. “Being called a pervert, false prophet, con man, a man who steals money from the poor, a man who makes men and women have sex in the church, is a criminal offence.” In alleged screenshots of the OP WhatsApp group seen by The Star, Dlamini said “I can smell one from afar. Mboro is a rural thug.” Motsoeneng responded and said: “Name the devil that * refer is satan in the group.” Dlamini replied with: “Devil is you. Satan.” Asked to comment on the matter, Dlamini told The Star Motsoeneng was an “imbecile”. “I can’t waste my time and entertain this man. He’s bored. When you are being accused by a mentally unstable person, you can’t be entertaining people who lack capacity.” Dlamini added that he would be making an application in court for Motsoeneng to have a mental evaluation. Malaphelo was also implicated in the alleged screenshots. He responded to Motsoeneng, asking the group to name the devil and said: “Mboro”.Malaphelo said he would prefer not to comment and added that Motsoeneng was “delusional”. He said he was aware that the Incredible Happenings leader wanted to open criminal cases. “I’d prefer to deal with it in that manner. Once I am contacted by the police, I will then deal with it in that fashion,” he said. The Open Politics WhatsApp group has appeared in the media before. Last month, former Afro WorldView owner and businessman Mzwanele Manyi won a defamation lawsuit against Dlamini, who had called him a “lame, lazy, horny stinky old donkey” in the group. Dlamini was ordered to pay Manyi R50000 in damages. The Star 