The provincial National Teachers’ Union (Natu) and the SA Democratic Teachers' Union (Sadtu) said on Monday that  members should not be working in fear, wondering if they were going to be the next victim. Gadimang Daniel Mokolobate, 24, died after being stabbed in the chest on Thursday at Ramotshere Moiloa High School near Zeerust. His alleged murderer - a Grade 10 learner - had apparently been reprimanded by Mokolobate for jumping the queue for food the day before. Natu's deputy president, Allen Thompson, said schools were the last place teachers should be in danger. He said the Department of Basic Education was failing teachers and learners by not providing sufficient, properly trained security guards. “Back when Ina Cronje was Education MEC and Dr Cassius Lubisi was the head, the department advertised 1500 security guard posts which Lubisi said was the department's commitment to safety, in response to the fears of our members.” Thompson said Natu was proposing one security guard for every 300 pupils, as “anything less would be the department continuing to gamble with teachers' and learners' lives”. Department spokesperson Muzi Mahlambi said the initial intake of security guards a few years ago was in response to threats coming from outside school premises. “Children and teachers survive all kinds of dangers coming to school but just when they breathe a sigh of relief that they made it safely on to school grounds, there are threats inside.” He said the department's budget was already stretched to make provisions for teaching and learning. Bheki Shandu, Sadtu's deputy provincial secretary said while teachers were taught how to deal with ill-discipline, they were not equipped to deal with violence. “The drugs, struggles, fights and grudges happening in society are spilling into schools, as we have seen with the killing of the two learners in KwaMakhutha, which was found to be linked to gangsterism. “The department has failed by not ensuring the provision of physical education and extracurricular activities. These have been shown to have a profound impact on learner discipline because every sports code has rules and are an outlet for learners to direct their energy,” Shandu said. Sphamandla Khomo of the Congress of SA Students urged learners to raise the alarm if they knew of pupils intending to commit violence.