The eyes of the world were on President Cyril Ramaphosa as he unveiled a life-size statue of Nelson Mandela at the UN in New York yesterday. Mandela’s eldest daughter, Makaziwe Mandela, representing the family, said: “This is not only a testimony to Madiba, but to what South Africa was capable of producing.” Ramaphosa told a packed hallway of UN dignitaries: “President Mandela firmly believed that the United Nations was the most valuable and effective instrument for the advancement of peace, development and equality that humanity conceived. We trust that this statue will remain a constant affirmation of South Africa’s commitment to a better world for all.” The statue of Mandela with his outstretched arms will be permanently located in the UN visitors centre as a permanent reminder of South Africa’s liberation icon. Behind the applause of South African officials was a recognition of the long road travelled in which the UN General Assembly adopted countless resolutions against the crime of apartheid over many decades. The historic unveiling of the statue was followed by a day-long Nelson Mandela Peace Summit, convened by the president of the General Assembly in honour of Mandela. UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres referred to Mandela as one of humanity’s great leaders, hailing him as an outstanding man and global citizen. Ramaphosa expressed the hope that the summit would signal a new dawn in honour of one of the greatest exemplars of humanity. He made specific reference to Mandela’s last address to the UN when he had said: “Why do they need weapons of mass destruction anyway?” To which no satisfactory answer has yet been given. “There is no justification for the existence of weapons with the potential to extinguish life on this planet,” Ramaphosa told heads of state and ministers. Mandela’s widow Graça Machel also addressed the gathering. “The UN would be well served to revisit the vision of its founder and emulate Mandela as a servant-leader who believed no sacrifice was too great. We have seen protracted conflicts in Syria, Yemen, Palestine, South Sudan, Central African Republic and Myanmar for too long; we now need bold and unprecedented action. "Ego is fuelling conflict, as well as greedy resource acquisition, and the arms industry.” A total of 158 speakers addressed the summit, and 44 heads of state attended. A political declaration was adopted, committing member states to reinvigorate efforts to fulfil their commitments to international peace and security. The declaration called on world leaders to uphold Madiba’s ideals, principles and values. The Star