Veritas College in Springs are the winners of the competition, with Midlands Primary and High School in Midrand, taking a very close runner-up position. The regional finals, which took place on Saturday at IIE Varsity College, Waterfall campus in Midrand, had 15 out of the 16 teams who made it through the preliminary round. Veritas College scored an impressive 35 out of 40 in their overall score, with eight out of eight in the politics and entertainment categories and seven out of eight in sport, business and current affairs. Midlands followed very closely with 33 out of 40. The pressure was on during the competition, and the learners were notably more nervous than they were during the first rounds. Veritas captain and Grade 11 pupil, Leroy Marewangepo, maintained a shell-shocked expression from when the winners were announced until he received his certificate and prizes. “I think it will sink in when I’m at home. I can’t wait to tell my parents and my friends, but I’m still shocked,” he said. Leroy said the competition had shown them that hard work paid off, and had given them confidence. “Knowing that hard work actually does pay off is great and I’m going to use this as inspiration to work harder,” he said. The Veritas team participated in last year’s competition, and they were determined to learn from last year and work harder. The team coach, Patson Ngidi, said that last year they had underestimated the intensity of the competition and “managed” the learners instead of “leading” them. Ngidi said his pupils’ victory this year involved a lot of sweat and tears. “I had to set as many questions as possible, so I went through all the papers and all the sections and I just set random questions,” he said. “For the preliminary, I think I set 157 questions and we had to go through all of them. The day before the competition, we went to school and went through them over and over.” Ngidi said it was important for his learners to acquaint themselves with reading. “Reading is so important and today kids don’t want to read. They just want to go on social media and all these other things,” he said. Midlands team captain and Grade10 learner, Neo Nkosi, said the competition had helped him understand what was going on in the country and internationally. “It prepared me for the future,” he said. On September 27, the two teams will face seven other schools from Pretoria, Cape Town and KwaZulu- Natal for the final round at the IIE Varsity College Sandton Campus, where the winner of the inaugural national high school quiz will be crowned. @Chulu_M