Using his talk show on PowerFM to apologise to acting government communications head Phumla Williams has come at a heavy price for Onkgopotse JJ Tabane who has now been axed from the station. The station accused Tabane, the host of Power Perspective, of breaching his contract of employment when he apologised to William on-air a fortnight ago without approval from the programme manager or executive producer. “We have considered the events that led to his suspension as well as the subsequent developments and have decided to terminate our relationship with Mr Tabane as of September 18, 2018,” Power FM marketing manager Masego Serape said. Tabane told The Star on shortly after the announcement was made that it was true that he had been canned as Power Perspective host and received a letter to that effect. “Will comment fully on the matter in due course,” he said. Last week, Power FM announced Tabane's suspension based on events that occurred between September 3 and 5. On September 3, Tabane had tweeted his disappointment at Williams’s testimony during the State Capture Commission of Inquiry about how former Minister of Communications, Faith Muthambi, emotionally tortured her. Political commentator Chris Vick subsequently called him out for his association with Muthambi and the next day Vick and Tabane had a heated debate on-air over the matter after being invited by another PowerFM's Power Drive host, Thabiso Tema. During the debate, Tabane says he convened a national task team that was meant to advise the communications ministry and that he did nothing wrong. He said he could not be silenced on national matters simply because he once worked with Muthambi. He also said he was was not ashamed of the work his company had done for Muthambi. Serape said Power FM station manager Bob Mabena requested Tabane to clarify the allegations made in Vick’s tweet as well as his pronouncements and conduct in the subsequent debate. Tabane allegedly assured Mabena that he had made a full disclosure of all material facts pertaining to the matter. However, on September 5, Tabane apologised to Williams on his Power Perspective show without prior warning to and approval from Mabena, the programme manager or the executive producer. “The main issue is that Mr Tabane committed serious material breaches of the provisions of our independent contractor agreement, rendering it impossible to continue a contractual relationship with him,” Serape said. The host, who also wrote a column for The Star called Let's Talk Frankly, wrote his last column on Monday. Tabane indicated that he would like to take a break from writing in order to concentrate on his doctorate studies. Power FM said they would name the new host of Power Perspective once they had concluded their recruitment processes. @Chulu_M