Johannesburg - Doctor Richard Lebethe didn’t come out looking clean during the Life Esidimeni arbitration, but it seems the Gauteng Health Department still holds him in high regard. Lebethe, who was the deputy director for clinical services during the Life Esidimeni tragedy, has now been put at the helm of Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital, as the acting chief executive. During the Life Esidimeni arbitration, headed by retired deputy chief justice Dikgang Moseneke, Lebethe was one of the Health Department’s top officials implicated. Giving testimony at the arbitration, SAPS Major-General Charles Johnson said their investigations were delayed due to a lack of co-operation from the department. Johnson said that when they asked for patients’ clinical records, Lebethe agreed to hand them over but later reneged and said the police should ask for them in writing. Former health MEC Qedani Mahlangu also testified that Lebethe and other senior officials misled her during the mental health marathon project. Instead of facing consequences for the tragedy, Lebethe is now acting chief executive of Chris Hani Baragwanath, after Dr Sifiso Maseko was removed from the position. “The allegations made are being taken seriously and, to this effect, the department instituted an independent investigation to ensure the process is fair and transparent,” said the head of department, Professor Mkhululi Lukhele. The department has also obtained a court order to stop workers from disrupting essential services to patients and to allow the investigating team space to conduct their work without disruption. Gauteng DA health spokesperson Jack Bloom is unhappy about Lebethe’s appointment. “Earlier this year, I asked Health MEC Gwen Ramokgopa whether there would be a disciplinary process concerning his role in the Esidimeni disaster, and she said this was being assessed in the light of the testimony at the arbitration hearings chaired by Justice Moseneke. “It is unfortunate that there is a cloud over Lebethe’s head as he takes over the top position at this major hospital,” Bloom said. In the meantime, the Gauteng provincial government has received 200 new claims for financial compensation from families of Life Esidimeni patients who survived the botched transfer to unsuitable NGOs. This was revealed by Thabo Masebe, the premier’s spokesperson, at a meeting last week of the Gauteng Legislature’s oversight committee. According to Masebe, most of these claims have been verified as being covered by the arbitration ruling. Payouts to 200 claimants would cost about R236million. - Additional reporting by Chulumanco Mahamba The Star