This was revealed in an internal memo by Gauteng Department of Infrastructure head Bethuel Netshiswinzhe in plans to refurbish the unsafe government buildings. In the report, Netshiswinzhe said: “It important to note that none of the buildings, apart from the Sage Life North Tower Building which is already vacant, were condemned by the Department of Labour. “Therefore, the legal status of all the buildings are still intact and may be occupied.” Public servants were evacuated from the buildings after the Bank of Lisbon caught fire, killing three firefighters. Gauteng MEC for Infrastructure Development Jacob Mamabolo said the building was only 21% compliant with the Occupational Health and Safety Act. The report also stated that it would take up to two months for the local government employees to return to work in the buildings. The evacuated buildings include the Old Reserve Bank, 75 Fox Street, the SA Perm Building, Thusanong Building, Corner House, the two Sage Life Towers and the Absa building. “Premier David Makhura, along with MEC Jacob Mamabolo, advised not to speculate on time frames on when the buildings may be reoccupied,” the memo said. The internal evacuation briefing stated that putting time frames “will create unreasonable expectations”, added Netshiswinzhe. A memo from Makhura to staff said: “The move to address occupational health and safety concerns does not mean government is shutting down. “The work being done on the buildings should be completed in two weeks in some of the buildings while others may require more time. “Once all the work to address the defects identified in the assessment report is complete, the Department of Labour will be called to inspect the buildings.” The report also recommended that all workers receive compulsory safety training. National Education Health and Allied Workers Union general secretary Zola Saphetha said it would write to Makhura to ask him to appoint a team that would handle the relocations. Gauteng EFF chairperson Mandisa Mashego said the party had opened a murder case against MEC for Health, Gwen Ramokgopa; Human Settlements MEC Uhuru Moiloa; Mamabolo and Makhura at the Joburg central police station. “The EFF will pursue progress in the case regularly with the investigator to make sure it is not stalled and shoved under the carpet - the way the Life Esidimeni murder case against the provincial government leaders of the ANC is being ignored,” Mashego said. But Joburg police spokesperson Captain Xoli Mbele said the case number furnished was that for a theft out of a motor vehicle, adding that he had no knowledge of the murder case being opened at the station. However, Mashego said: “That is the case number they gave me. If they gave me the wrong case number deliberately that is their own incompetence and ineptitude which is evident in the high crime stats.” Public Servants Association provincial manager in Gauteng Monica Venter said some department heads had not complied with the directive to evacuate the buildings. “This is a step back from the progress that stakeholders are trying to make to ensure employees’ safety,” said Venter.