Statistics handed to her office by universities and public colleges have revealed that a shocking 47 students were raped last year. Pandor disclosed the scary data to Parliament as a written reply to questions by the EFF’s Nontando Nolutshungu. The University of Cape Town told Pandor it recorded nine rape incidents last year, making it the institution with the highest number. It was followed by Walter Sisulu University with seven. The Tshwane University of Technology (TUT) reported six rapes, there were five at the Nelson Mandela University (NMU) and four at the University of Johannesburg. Rhodes University and the University of the Western Cape each recorded two rapes. Wits University, the Cape Peninsula University of Technology, Durban University of Technology, North West University, University of Pretoria and Unisa each recorded single incidents. More rapes may have taken place in that year, as not all higher learning institutions complied with the instruction to supply their figures to Pandor. Only four out of 50 technical vocational education and training (TVET) colleges responded to her request for information. TVETs have more than 260 campuses across the country. Of the country’s 26 universities, 20 supplied Pandor with their rape statistics. The minister pointed out that she had asked all the institutions for data on rapes because “the department does not collect such information as a matter of routine”. Rape on campuses again dominated headlines recently when Rhodes University’s Khensani Maseko committed suicide after allegedly being raped on campus. Female students have protested several times over what they term the rape culture at the country’s universities. A number of predators have been jailed in recent years for brazen rapes on campus. Just last month, 29-year-old Kwanele Kilana was handed three life sentences on charges that included raping two students at NMU. Moses Modisane, a 21-year-old Wits University student, was charged with raping a fellow student on campus this year and appeared in the Johannesburg Magistrate’s Court. In 2016, Mthunzi Patrick Hlomane was jailed for nine life terms for robbing and raping five UCT students. Pandor wanted universities to discuss ways to arrest the campus rape crisis, her spokesperson Lunga Ngqengelele said yesterday. “We need to find ways to ensure that such incidents do not happen,” Ngqengelele said. Universities South Africa, a body representing universities, confirmed it would meet Pandor. Matimba Ngobeni, president of TUT’s student representative council, urged Pandor and university officials to consider beefing up security on campuses. A student was almost raped in a toilet at TUT’s Soshanguve South campus four months ago. @BonganiNkosi87