For me there are two interpretations to the apology: the apology is made in order to trigger intense irritation from his listeners, or to solicit a friendly understanding of him implementing reactionary instructions that were equally annoying. In 1991 I was fortunate to produce a documentary on Phumla Williams for the BBC. I filmed her virgin steps of freedom from prison into the arms of her equally strong religious mother. It was a warm hug that ended many days and nights of prayer and life dedicated to the living God. Prison did not confiscate her determination to serve her people with courage and determination. But to have seen her at the edge of collapsing into tears uncovered that among us are wild beasts of greed. Why is the confession made now, and what will be the impact of rejecting his apology that seems to be made without atonement? It will be difficult for JJ to comprehend such a reaction, as he may never have been a part of understanding what it meant to be a true ANC cadre. In the old order, being an ambitious back-stabber was part of the grand strategy of the apartheid regime, but in a democracy the same tendencies can only jolt our mistrust of the motives of JJ to be a journalist with integrity. Did JJ consider the gruelling effects that bore a heavy toll on Phumla Williams over the generations? His answer to this question is likely to make vomit rise. First, under apartheid Phumla was betrayed and now, under a democracy with a single ambition to fight for what was right and defend that which she fought for, she is betrayed again. The curious habit of those who have access to the microphone and the TV screen with an attitude of self-importance has become a common sense preservation for JJ as a broadcast host, to protect his position. I would urge more criticism of his self-declared ambitions at the cost of Phumla and a silence narrative coupled with a late apology that he hopes may further gain the respect and admiration of his audiences. The essence of good journalistic analysis is facts, their importance as well as their implications in a balanced attitude, as well as the survival of the integrity of the journalist. The decisive facts which JJ should have considered are the painful and deadly struggle between two forces; the revolutionary engagement that Phumla had pursued for the benefit of a new democratic order, and the counter-revolutionary instructions he had embraced, which between them sum up the total reality of the narrative of the state capture. Journalists ought not to omit what the democratic ideals are and must know what must be done to defend such gains, lest they betray the virtues and the traditions of good journalism. If you do not do this for fairness and objectivity, then we have done nothing for good journalistic practice.  Montsho, MBA, is a communication strategist.