Johannesburg - The parents of a Kagiso schoolgirl were shocked to find that not only was their child arrested for the alleged possession of a firearm but that she had hidden it behind the sofa at home. The 19-year-old is currently behind bars following her arrest on Monday. She was arrested along with a 16-year-old schoolgirl who was allegedly found with ammunition in her schoolbag. According to Captain Solomon Sibiya of the Kagiso SAPS, they had been having problems with gangsterism in their area and were busy trying to nip that in the bud when they received a tip-off that a 16-year-old girl at a school in the area was in possession of a gun. “Our crime prevention members were patrolling in the area of Extension 14 and gathering information on illegal gangs' activities when they received the tip-off.” “One responsible and concerned learner informed the police about a schoolmate that was in possession of an unlawful firearm in Grade 11,” said Sibiya. Sibiya said they approached the girl where they allegedly found six rounds of ammunition in her schoolbag. "When we asked her where the gun for the ammunition was she said the gun was with her male schoolmate. When we went to the boy, he said he did not know anything and referred us to a 19-year-old schoolmate. "We went to her and she took us to her home and we found that she had hidden the gun behind the sofa. It was wrapped in a newspaper." He confirmed that the 16-year-old girl was later released into her parents' custody while the 19-year-old was kept behind bars. He said the 19-year-old's parents were in shock when they arrived at the police station where their child was in custody. They did not know anything about the firearms, he said. Sibiya said both girls have refused to say who the gun belongs to. "We don't know if they had it for protection with regards to gangsterism or what but we will find out soon," he said. The 19-year-old was expected to appear at the Kagiso Magistrate's Court for the possession of an unlicensed firearm on Tuesday. The Star