Heritage Day is a time when South Africans are encouraged to celebrate the diversity of their beliefs and traditions. Six young creatives joined forces to create a unique design adaptation of the South African flag to celebrate this diversity. The artists were tasked with designing a portion of the flag that depicted a South African culture, but the catch was that it should be a culture other than their own. The six artists collaborated with Castle Lager to reveal the flag at Constitution Hill in Braamfontein yesterday. The objective was to bring about an understanding of others. Any preconceived ideas the artists may have held about different cultures were put aside. Motswana artist Modise Sepeng focused on the Ndebele culture for the yellow section of the flag.      The graphic designer from Alexandra said the concept of his section was based on the “Bantu symbolism” of Ndebele art and the geometric shapes used. “The triangles and circles mean something specific and they are (based on) storytellers,” he said. Sepeng, 28, said he tried to include his signature interest in space and infrastructure with Ndebele prints. “I tried to include buildings or houses and the idea of a home. The Ndebele culture is quite big on family and people and that’s what I was exploring,” he said. The illustrator said he learnt that there was a language in art from this project and that Ndebele art had a strong influence in modern design and architecture. “There are a lot of things out there that reference Ndebele aesthetic and they don’t credit it,” he said.Johannesburg-based illustrator and art director Lazi Mathebula is Zulu, but for this project he focused on Afrikaans culture for the red section. Mosotho illustrator, street artist and graphic designer Karabo Poppy focused on the Venda culture for the blue section. English illustrator Dillon Harland usually draws his inspiration from the country’s diversity, and his black section of the flag represents Zulu culture, while Zulu illustrator, Simphiwe Mongole, focused on the Sotho culture in the white section. The Xhosa culture is the final one represented on the flag, and this was done by Afrikaans illustrator and graphic designer Kobie Nieuwoudt in the green section. A video told how each of the artists conceptualised their design.      @Chulu_M  The Star