Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo yesterday delivered a judgment that declared unconstitutional the laws that allowed police to arrest adults found in possession of dagga in their homes or luggage. The ruling, which went against four government departments and the National Prosecuting Authority, paved the way for adults to cultivate dagga in private land without fear of arrest. But the judgment threw employers a curveball, said Rudy Maritz, a safety, health, environment and quality (SHEQ) legal advisor. “Employers may now face some challenges from cannabis-consuming employees and it’s imperative that the correct message is conveyed from the outset. “What do you do when an employee comes to work with cannabis in his or her pocket or handbag?” Maritz questioned. “It is in private. It is thus not illegal. “In my opinion, employers need to re-evaluate their alcohol and drug abuse policies. From there, an assessment can be made as to the extent of controls needed,” said Maritz. He further revealed that: “Cannabis remains detectable in the human system for up to 30 days, but the ‘intoxication’ effects or short-term effects start to taper off after three or four hours. When cannabis is ingested, its effects peak between four and six hours”. The SHEQ legal advisor said the regulatory reference “appear to be under the influence” has often caused companies to “test and be sure” of intoxication but given the time lapse, one would never be 100% sure. The Health Department, which was one of four departments hoping that the court would maintain the outright ban, argued before the Bench that dagga was a serious health hazard. Dr Joey Gouws, the registrar of medicines at the health department, warned that heavy smoking of cannabis could induce chronic bronchitis. “Although tobacco, alcohol and prescription drugs also have harmful effects, research has shown beyond reasonable doubt that their effects are far less than those of cannabis on the user. “The harmful effects caused by cannabis are incomparable to food, alcohol and tobacco.” But the Traditional Healers’ Organisation said the ruling was a victory for treatment of various ailments. “For many years, marijuana has been used for treatment of chest congestion, cancer-related ailments, cervical-related conditions and colic in children.” Justice Zondo’s ruling also barred police from arresting adults for possession of dagga in public spaces and vehicles, so long as they could prove they were not going to sell it. “The State will bear the onus to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the purpose of the possession was not personal consumption,” said Justice Zondo. He gave Parliament 24 months to repeal laws that empowered police to arrest adults using dagga privately.