Johannesburg - Preparations for the 2019 Trek4Mandela and Caring4Girls campaign are underway as various well-known media personalities are signing up for the Mount Kilimanjaro climb. The Trek4Mandela Expedition brings together individuals from corporate and public backgrounds to assist in raising funds and creating awareness for the Caring4Girls menstrual hygiene programme which has been going strong for 7 years. The 2019 Trek will be officially launched at the Nelson Mandela Foundation with interested corporate sponsors and individuals in attendance. Names of individuals who might be on the list are sketchy as it is alleged that advocate Thuli Madonsela was among the celebrities reported to have signed up for the cause. “Our Caring4Girls programme is not simply just a sanitary towel distribution plan” said Richard Mabaso, founder and CEO of the Imbumba Foundation and Trek4Mandela initiative. He said: “We spend significant time in facilitating educational programmes centred around building girls’ self-esteem and confidence. We are very excited about the expansion of the Trek4Mandela expeditions and the opportunity to give our girl child beneficiaries the opportunity to partake in these leadership challenge expeditions. We believe the experience and exposure will engage and inspire the youth of South Africa to dream and think beyond borders. Our aim is to help grow future community leaders, who will understand and apply the concept of Think Global – Act Local .” Mabaso could not confirm nor deny the alleged reports that the professor would take part in the climb but said he would make the announcement in due time. Among others was singer and songwriter Lira who openly supports the cause posted images of Instragram asking members to sign up for the initiative. She wrote: “Today at the launch of the @trek4mandela expedition for 2019 which supports the @caring4girls initiative. If you are ready to summit Kilimanjaro why not do it for a cause!? Please sign up! Help us reach our targeted 2 000 000 girls by 2020. Follow both accounts to see the incredible work being done for the #GirlChild.” The Star made several attempts to contact Madonsela but calls were left unanswered at the time of publication. “We are hoping that between the 2018 and 2019 Mandela Month climbs, we will be able to honour the Mandela Centenary with the participation of 100 climbers,” said Nelson Mandela foundation CEO, Sello Hatang. The Star