The Red Bull Box Cart Race took place on Sunday, for 500m down Sandton Drive. After an eight-year hiatus, an eventful, action-packed day saw team SA Bobsled from Benoni electrify the thousands who gathered along the street to cheer them on. The winning team, comprising Stuart Turner, John Turner, Gareth Turner and Lloyd Herbst, had the spectators laughing at their green lycra body- hugging outfits. “It was me, my brother, father and childhood friend Lloyd. We got basic tubing and old bicycle bits and put a frame together, then had the idea to make a bobsled, like from the movie Cool Runnings, and it fit in with the theme. We thought it would be funny to have a South African bobsled. It was a few laughs at the expense of ourselves.” Getting the cart together took a month, spending a few hours on it on Saturdays. “I definitely thought our idea was crazy enough and creative enough to stand a chance to win. From the get-go I thought we had a chance; we had a look around and the response we got was good. We thought at least top five, but when we ended up winning ,it was a surprise,” said Gareth Turner, who drove the team to success. For runners-up Team Bathtime, they were inspired by the Red Bull branding with a bathtub going down the hill and decided to replicate it. “It took three months and lots of late nights to build it. We expected to do well - we said we wanted to win. We didn't have an idea of who was coming and what kind of creativity there was. We said we were going to give it our all to get a podium (placing). We gave our everything and it was great. Wouldn’t want to do it again and then it ends differently. It’s a memory we want to cherish,” said Johan Niemand. Third placed team Ballberions Drag- on had one of the best-looking carts. “It's quite a lengthy process from deciding to enter to drawing up plans, getting them accepted and starting to build. It's joyful because the dream comes true and everyone pulls in. Coming together to do something fun and completely ludicrous is great. We had an aluminium frame welded, and the building of the heads took a long time. It was two months, all in all,” said Neels Clasen. He said his teammate Etienne’s crowd-pleasing factor of lying under the cart was always a winner. “We did our first test run two nights before the actual race.” The three teams beat 68 others who took part.