Johannesburg - Just two weeks after the end of Women's Month, a video has emerged showing a security guard slapping a woman in a store. The incident occurred at Pick n Pay in North Riding last Thursday. The video does not make it clear what started the fight, but the security guard can be seen walking towards the woman and slapping her in the face twice. The woman is with a man who tries but fails to protect the woman from the security guard's slaps. At some point the woman, cornered at the door of the store, is seen trying to fight back until a customer intervenes. In the background, a male customer recording the incident can be heard condemning what is happening. “Yho yho, call the cops. He doesn’t have a right to hit a lady. He is wrong. It is wrong, he smacked that lady.” The store's floor manager, only known as Karabo, can be seen in a video trying to fix an advertising board that had fallen during the fight. The video was posted by Qeanen Bash Lesley on Facebook and accompanied by the following message: "Guys as you can see, this poor lady is being smacked twice by the security guard. This all happened at the North Riding Northlands Pick n Pay. "Security guard says he thought she wanted to steal, but the lady says that she walked in with her plastic bag and had a few items in the bag. He smacked her and claimed that she stole the items and she showed him the receipt . "Guys please make this trend because and management [did nothing to the security]."   Lesley also said the woman was the first one to slap the security guard after he accused her of theft and shoved her. The Star went to the store to get information on what happened and whether steps had been taken against the security guard and whether they had been in touch with the woman. A security guard who works outside the store said he heard about the fight. “I was told that a customer beat up a security and other securities were called for back up. It seems like it was suspected that the lady stole something at the store. The security tried to hold the lady and the lady threw a cooking oil at the security guard. Customers tried to separate them,” the guard said. The Star also tried to get a comment from Karabo to get clarity as to what happened. Although the video clearly shows her  at the scene, she said she was not around then referred The Star to the store manager. The store manager confirmed that the incident took place last week but that she had been meeting when it happened. She also said she was not authorised to speak to the media and referred The Star to the store's communications team who said they were still investigating the matter. “Please give us a few more days to complete our investigations. There are a number of people we still need to speak to,” Janine Caradonna said in an email. Douglasdale police spokesperson said there hadn’t been any case opened with regards to the incident. The Star understands that the security company still provides services at the store. @SthembisoMedia The Star