This past week saw me in fact shedding a few, and for a person I have never met. But the Mark Zinde story gripped me so much, that I could not help myself shedding quite a few in court. It also taught me a few lessons: To never assume the worst before you know more and have understanding for mental health issues. Zinde killed his mother, Hope Zinde in 2016 at their luxury Pecanwood Estate home. He then stuffed her body into the boot of her car, which was parked in the garage. The police discovered the body after family members could not get hold of the 50-year-old former SABC board member. He then attempted to murder his father and assaulted his stepmother. Zinde never went on trial for this, but the court on Friday found that on the strength of the evidence in possession of the prosecution, he had committed these crimes. In spite of this, Zinde will never see the inside of a jail serving a sentence. Instead, he will most likely be locked up for the rest of his life or at least for the bulk of it, in a psychiatric institution. This was after three psychiatrists at Weskoppies Psychiatric Hospital had declared him mentally ill. He suffers from an array of psychiatric health issues - the gravest being schizophrenia. Judge Bert Bam declared Zinde a danger to himself and to others. It emerged that Zinde, now 25, suffered from psychiatric problems a long time ago, which was probably aggravated by his drug use. At first I was appalled by the fact that Zinde had killed his mother, and I had little sympathy for him. But as the months passed in which I saw him on several occasions in court, I realised something was seriously wrong. He appeared zombie-like, shouted obscenities at the judge and a court orderly had to lead him by the hand back to the holding cells. I was afraid of this seemingly volatile man. But on Friday my heart broke when I saw his childlike demeanour as he silently clutched his aunt’s hand. On the one hand he is lucky, as he has a support structure from his amazing family. Perhaps things would have turned out differently if he received the psychiatric help he needed years ago. I don’t know. But I think his mother can rest in peace that her killer was not the child she had raised and who once was the head boy of his school. I also do not spare my tears when it comes to child abuse and child killings. Little Poppie van der Merwe, 3, who was beaten to death by her mother and stepfather, owns a lot of my tears. So does 3-year-old Tebetso Phahle from Mamelodi, who was beaten to death by his stepfather for soiling himself. This was particularly so when his last word was “Mama”, as he called out to her for help. There was also the case of a 2-month-old baby boy - one of a twin - who was beaten so severely that he now has severe brain damage, and he cannot walk, talk or eat by himself. There are too many to mention and I suspect many more will cross my path in the future. I intend to shed a tear for all of them My tears, on occasion, also belong to adults. These are few and far between, but it does happen. A brutal murder trial, accompanied by horrific pictures of the victims more often that not leave me shaken. I feel sad that someone had to meet their fate in this manner.