Makhura’s response in the legislature comes just as the government confirmed that 200 new claims for financial compensation had been received from the families of the mentally-ill patients who survived. Provincial government spokesperson Thabo Masebe said the DA’s Jack Bloom had asked Makhura to consider the matter. “He (Bloom) asked him a question, to say he must consider getting them to pay a portion. This is a legal matter, and obviously a legal matter means he’s got to get legal advice,” Masebe said. Bloom, the DA’s shadow MEC for health, wrote a letter to Makhura regarding the matter. “The letter was not acknowledged and I got a chance to ask the question in the legislature. I was requesting him to take steps using the Apportionment of Damages Act to recover some of the R159.4 million arbitration award money from former health MEC Qedani Mahlangu, former head of department Barney Selebano and former chief director for mental health Makgabo Manamela,” Bloom said. He said he was more worried about time running out because the act stipulated that action needed to be taken within a year. He added that according to the act, where more than one person may be held liable for a wrongful act, these wrongdoers were considered jointly and severally liable to any claimants for the resultant harm. “Makhura said ‘extensive consultation’ was taking place on the issue of the personal liability of the former MEC and officials, including input from the Department of Justice. “The premier should be taking this issue seriously as taxpayers should not have to foot the bill for the deplorable conduct of his government which led to the Esidimeni tragedy,” Bloom said. He said if the government did not pursue the matter to recoup money from those responsible, no one could. In June, the provincial government paid out R159m to 134 claimants in terms of the arbitration award by former deputy chief justice Dikgang Moseneke. Bloom estimated the new claims would cost taxpayers a further R236m.