Friends and employees of the Mpumalanga businessman alleged stabbed and killed by his lawyer wife, sang outside the court appealing for the suspect not to be given bail. Wearing T-shirts written "Team No Bail" the group of about 30 stood outside Witbank Magistrates Court on Wednesday morning following the postponement of Itumeleng Makhalemele-Maseko's bail application which is due to be hear next week. Makhalemele-Maseko is accused of killing her husband and socialite Caswell Maseko on Saturday at their Merelden Estate home following a heated argument. She allegedly stabbed him before fleeing for two days. Her car was found abandoned at a shopping mall in Pretoria. Police have yet to divulge the deceased's injuries. The suspect made a brief appearance before her case was postponed, however, that did not deter the spirits of the group of friends and employees who sang for at least an hour outside the court. Itumeleng Makhalemele-Maseko is accused of killing her husband and socialite Caswell Maseko on Saturday at their Merelden Estate home following a heated argument. "Caswell was a good man. His employees loved him and he was kind to them. I know the suspect and the two were sincerely in love. I respected them but I feel that it would be unfair to Caswell's family for the suspect to be given bail because of the brutal manner that Caswell was killed," a close friend who only introduced himself as Sandile. The deceased owned two businesses in Witbank and had other social projects to uplift youth in the area. The disappearance of his wife trended on social media this week with some people coming to her defence alluding that she could have been a victim of domestic abuse.. The deceased's aunt, Gugulethu, told The Star how Saturday’s horrific incident at her nephew’s Marelden Estate had left their family in shock and had threatened to destroy relations with the family of their daughter-in-law. The couple had two children. “We are still shocked that this things happened. We always knew that his wife was full of anger but we didn’t think that it would go this far. They had been married for almost two years and they had their differences and fights. Sometimes she would be the first one to run to the police because her father is also a police station commander,” said the aunt. She said at least two weeks leading to the fateful Saturday, her nephew had called her several times that his wife was threatening to stab him. But she did not take it seriously. @lindilesifile