This was the assertion made on Tuesday by the Nelson Mandela Foundation (NMF) when reacting to the backlash on various media platforms, to the Mandela statue unveiled on Monday at the UN in New York City. The overriding contentious issue with the statue has been Mandela’s hair, with many observers noting it was straight and not the traditional inward curl associated with the black African form. Luzuko Koti, spokesperson for the NMF, said the organisation noticed impressions of Mandela were never to people’s satisfaction. Koti added that the foundation did not guide, inform or influence the creation of the statue in any way as this was a UN project in conjunction with the Department of Arts and Culture. “The foundation was involved at the (statue) unveiling as it happened during the UN Nelson Mandela Peace Summit, which we were involved in,” Koti said. According to the organisation, Brand South Africa, the statue’s sculptors were locals and were the same ones used in the creation of the Mandela sculpture which towers over the Union Buildings’ lawns in Tshwane. Andre Otto, one of the sculptors, said the posture of the arms raised was suggested by Minister Lindiwe Sisulu of the Department of International Relations and Co-operation (Dirco). Otto was speaking on a video published by Dirco. In the same video the other sculptor, Andre Prinsloo, said the statue was created to depict Mandela during his inaugural address to the UN in 1990. Some of the tweets on the subject: “Looking at this Mandela statue, it’s no wonder Mama Tshepo Ramaphosa kept looking at it up-and-down in disbelief. To those who asked about the statue of Shaka and his nose, check out Tata’s hair here.” - Pinky Khoabane “The #Mandelastatue unveiled in New York has straight hair. It only partially looks like him. Public procurement continues to embarrass the state even on international platforms. Oh well.” - Deputy Public Protector Kevin Malunga “You probably need to write Mandela on the statue, because that dude does not look like Mandela bro.” - Caswell Phasha. “SA really convinced the UN that the statue we gifted them is of Mandela and not Robert De Niro.” - Gugulethu Mhlungu “Who is this weird-looking, Caucasian-haired dude? Because it sure (isn’t) our beautiful #Madiba. Sies!” - Olga Briana “Well done to the staff of the Department of Arts and Culture for development of the Mandela statue at the UN.” - Alicia Monis The Star