Johannesburg - Survivors of the horrific Limpopo bus that killed 11 passengers crash told of how they were woken up by heart- wrenching screams during the accident. A passenger and crew member said they were asleep and were woken up by a burst tyre and distressing screams for help in the early hours of Monday morning on the N1 Road in Mookgophong, outside Modimolle. Robert Phiri, a passenger, said he heard the sound coming from underneath the bus from Kitwe, Zambia to Joburg but didn't pay much attention to it. “We were sleeping and woke up when we heard a tyre burst and suddenly we found ourselves screaming for help. A few seconds after the tyre burst, the bus was rstreaing off the road and it crashed,” said Phiri. The bus was more than 200km away from Joburg when it crashed. Phiri said he only had a few seconds to orientate himself after he was able to get out of the bus. “We embarked on a rescue mission to remove fellow passengers, that’s when we realised that some were dead and others were seriously injured,” Phiri said. He said they had been on the road for more than 24 hours when the accident occurred. Crew member Charles Chishimba said he was also asleep when the accident occurred and had no recollection of how he got out of the bus. “I heard people screaming and shouting for help. I was already outside the bus but I don’t know how I ended up outside,” said Chishimba. He said there were three drivers and that the one who was driving at the time of the accident was hospitalised. Phiri and Chishimba were visibly tired as they watched authorities, including forensic pathologists, traffic officers and police count and remove dead bodies from the scene. The Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC) spokesperson Simon Zwane said since January, road crashes involving buses had claimed the lives of 54 people. “The RTMC has been involved in investigating seven major fatal crashes involving buses so far this year. There were no fatalities in one other crash involving a bus. Buses contribute about 1% of the total number of fatal crashes caused by all modes of road transport in the country. "Last year there were 161 fatal crashes involving buses which was a slight decrease compared to 202 fatal bus crashes recorded in 2016,” Zwane said. “However more needs to be done to curb the spate of bus crashes in the country as one incident claims more lives compared to others modes of road transport,” he said. He said the RTMC has sent crash investigators to Limpopo to assist in investigating the cause of yesterday’s accident. “The exact cause of the crash will be known once all investigations have been finalised,” Zwane said. Limpopo police spokesperson Colonel Moatshe Ngoepe said police were investigating a case of culpable homicide. “It is alleged that the bus was traveling from Gauteng Province towards Polokwane in the early hours of today with 55 passengers and five drivers when it lost control and overturned. “During this accident, 11 out of the 60 passengers were certified dead at the scene, all the drivers and other passengers sustained serious injuries and were taken to various hospitals for medical treatment,” Ngoepe said. He said eight of the victims who died were women while the other three were male. ‘The identification process of all the deceased is still unfolding,” Ngoepe said. Provincial Department of Transport spokesperson Matome Moremi-Taueatsoala said two victims were in a critical condition at the Pietersburg Provincial Hospital while others were hospitalised at Mokopane’s Voortrekker Hospital. @smashaba The Star