The Africa Polo Open is more than just a day at the horses. It is a lesson in all things polo. Even the most clueless people who have never experienced the game, will leave the Rosefield Polo Club knowing all they need to know about how the much loved sport is played. In addition to the match commentator’s knowledge of the game, the spectators are encouraged to join in the game with the halftime divot stomp. For this year’s polo open- dubbed as Africa’s Grandes Polo Tournament, South Africa faced Nigeria in a thrilling match that ended in the favour of the Mzansi team for a 6-4 victory. Earlier in the day, a ladies match between team Queen Nandi and team Queen Amina got the growing crowd warmed up for the main match of the day. Team South Africa was captained by Dirk van Reenen while team Nigeria was lead by Muhammad Babangida. September has been a month filled with polo events and many players have been part of matches at many of them. The likes of Zompie Tsotetsi and Neku Atawodi have been on the rise in the game. Dressing to the polo is all about being chic yet relaxed. Those in attendance wore cool summer dresses and blazers to truly make a day of it. The much anticipated divot stomp that takes place after the first half of the match is a tradition in the game of polo. Spectators are invited onto the field to stomp the divots made by the horses on the field from their hooves. “Our journey with the sport, and this tournament, has entered its third leg. The first saw us as enthusiastic spectators. The second, in 2014, landed  us the commercial rights to the Inter-Provincial Polo Tournament that we renamed the Prince of Wales Polo Cup,” said Africa Polo Open organiser Mr Concierge managing director Kgomotso Molosiwa. “Polo is a majestic sport that is all about connections and that is what I love about it. Being actively involved in growing this continental match for Africa by Africa is the stuff of dreams,” she added. Managing director of the South African Polo Association Clive Peddle said their primary objective was to promote polo in the country. “This is the first visit by a Nigerian team and we wish them a successful and pleasant tour,” he said. An informative polo book is available to spectators on match day and it guides them through the game, language and history of the sport. There are 450 polo players in South Africa and 38 polo clubs with affiliated players. The first recorded South African game of the sport was in 1874 between the Gordon Highlanders and the Cape Mounted Rifles. Polo as a sport dates back to 6th century BC. After the game and prize-giving ceremony at the Africa Polo Open guests were invited to enjoy some good music and food until late on Sunday. @mane_mpi