Comic Con Africa will see the best of the best in the industry of superhero comics to gaming, and fans will get an opportunity to see some of their favourite international stars in person. The build-up to the three-day event has been overwhelming for organisers, who did not expect a sold-out response from fans. The global director of business development at ReedPop, Kuo-Yu Liang, said at a media briefing held on Thursday at Kyalami that the show was going to be exciting for those with tickets on hand. “We are so thrilled to be able to launch this event. This is only the beginning, there is much more to come,” said Liang. Kevin Sussman, who plays comic book store owner Stuart in the Big Bang Theory, will grace fans with his presence at Comic Con this weekend. Local and international comic and gaming stars will be gracing our shores for the world-class festival. These stars include Kevin Sussman from The Big Bang Theory and Anthony Mackie from Marvel’s The Falcon. Liang added that this week in the US and Germany, ReedPop was launching two other Comic Con shows that he candidly said were not even close to being sold out. Excited and overwhelmed by the response to the show, he said: “This is amazing. This is huge. Comic fans who will be at the Comic Con this weekend will also have an opportunity to brush shoulders with Anthony Mackie from Marvel’s The Falcon. “Part of my job as the global director has been to work with all the multinational companies whether that’s Netflix, HBO or Marvel. Every one of them, I can tell you from the global headquarters, has had their eyes on Comic Con Africa.” Carol Weaving, managing director of Reed Exhibitions, said: “We have been striving to bring this festival to our continent for several years and now, through our partnership with VS Gaming, we are finally ready to showcase the very best that the world has to offer when it comes to pop culture.” Organisers have urged that fans without tickets should not come to the venue because it is officially sold out and no tickets will be sold at the gate.