Luyanda Mfeka, spokesperson for Joburg mayor Herman Mashaba, confirmed to The Star that the city had been paying an annual subscription of R13m, which would now be withdrawn from Salga. This comes as Papikie Mohale, national spokesperson of the South African Municipal Workers’ Union (Samwu), said court and industrial action were the avenues the organisation was pursuing to challenge Mashaba’s decision to withdraw the city’s subscription from the national local government body. On Thursday, Mashaba announced that Joburg’s council had approved the halting of payment to Salga on account of the body’s “dereliction of duty to the city”. The mayor accused Salga of a range of issues, including serving as a proxy for the ANC, as well as not intervening in battles within Samwu, which has resulted in what the mayor said were two conflicting factions claiming legitimacy within the union. “This continued conflict within Samwu has negatively affected labour relations in the city and our municipal entities - impacting negatively on service delivery,” Mashaba said. But Samwu rejected Mashaba’s assertions, saying the Labour Appeal Court had “confirmed the leadership of the union at all levels”. Samwu’s Mohale said the union was exploring legal action to fight Joburg’s withdrawal because the union felt that city workers would be compromised as they would fall outside the collective-bargaining structure afforded by Salga. “The city would now have to have wage negotiations separately, which will harm workers. "This is because we have been negotiating centrally to ensure workers have what we call the principle of ‘equal pay for equal work’; that is, a worker in Mangaung should be paid the same as a worker in Joburg if both of them are doing the same job,” Mohale said. He added that the union was in the majority in Joburg and represented roughly 20000 workers. The ANC in Joburg contended that this withdrawal would also affect city councillors. “The continuing efforts by Salga to have all councillors in South Africa be part of the Public Office Bearers pension fund are a benefit that might not be enjoyed by Joburg councillors," the party said. @khayakoko88