“A haven for child killings and abuse” was how Joburg was described by a Chapter 9 institution over the city’s “unwillingness” to deal with bogus initiation schools. Yesterday, the Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities (CRL Rights Commission) slammed Joburg officials, including mayor Herman Mashaba, for the city’s apparent refusal to implement recommendations dealing with “criminal” initiation schools, “which are literally killing our children”. This comes as the city was given an effective 48 hours to decide whether it will comply with the CRL Rights Commission’s recommendations, or face possible legal action to force compliance. Mashaba led an eight-person delegation to the commission’s Joburg offices following a summons issued to the city after it was the only Gauteng municipality to reject invitations during the discussions that led to the recommendations to curb bogus schools killing children. Thoko Mkhwanazi-Xaluva, the CRL Rights Commission chairperson, led the charge on Joburg, rebuking the city’s decision not to create by-laws regulating initiations because there was a bill before Parliament being discussed to deal with the matter. Part of the recommendations, which all Gauteng municipalities, except for Joburg, have adhered to, were that by-laws had to be created so that land is set aside for initiation; water and health services are provided at sites; permits are issued; and that local law enforcement agencies, together with the SAPS, monitor the schools rigorously. “So you will continue creating an environment that is conducive to the death, abuse and all violations that are happening around children,” Mkhwanazi-Xaluva charged. Mashaba said: “The (Joburg) team felt it would be jumping the gun if we did by-laws before the finalisation of national legislation.” As soon as the mayor left the room, Joburg executives who were part of Mashaba’s delegation, and included city manager Dr Ndivho Lukhwareni, did an about-turn, emphasising that a decision was taken in April not to create by-laws and issue permits until Parliament concluded its process. This drew the ire of the CRL commissioners. Mkhwanazi-Xaluva said a plenary session would be held to discuss what they felt was Joburg’s arrogance and politicking. A decision would be taken tomorrow, Mkhwanazi-Xaluva said, and legal action against the city would be an option.