Informal settlements are popping up all over the city, such as the Mhlangeni informal settlement in Groblerpark, and Roodepoort where residents in formal dwellings and those in the nearby settlement clash almost daily because of illegal connections to their substation. Groblerpark residents, who did not want to be named, told The Star during a visit to the area that they were fed up with regular power cuts that damaged many of their appliances. They said that more than 100 houses were affected, and have accused City Power officials of not caring about, or responding to, their grievances. The community has since taken matters into its own hands by disconnecting illegal connections. This, said one homeowner, had resulted in riots and protests. “We have tried to negotiate with informal dwellers and make them understand how much they are inconveniencing us, but they just don’t get it. We are paying for this service and for rates that are ridiculously high, and yet you get people who are using free electricity,” he said. Another homeowner said he had been living in the area since 2004, and the number of shacks had quadrupled in that time. Residents said people from the informal settlement simply dug underneath cement slabs and under power boxes to connect their wires. Residents have since signed a petition. Ward councillor Rene Benjamin said the residents had engaged her about the illegal connections and she had alerted City Power. She said meetings had been held with City Power, metro police and SAPS who had removed the illegal connections, but which were very quickly reconnected. Moses Maribe, a resident of Mhlangeni, confirmed that he and his neighbours were bridging the electricity. The 53-year-old attributed this to living in poverty. “The people from Groblerpark call the cops on us, they cut our wires and we throw rocks at them. “There is often war and riots because of electricity. The government does not care about us. We want houses and jobs,” he said. Maribe acknowledged that the bridging was a safety hazard, but said they did not have a choice. City Power spokesperson Isaac Mangena said his department had a collaborative agreement with the SAPS and metro police to conduct the removal of illegal connections in the area every three months. “City Power removed illegal connections in that area on August21. Removal of illegal connections has become a challenge because every time they are removed, they are reconnected by the residents of the informal settlement,” said Mangena.