This wasn't the first time the metro has had such an astounding response. Last year, the municipality's first intake in almost 10 years resulted in more than 40000 applications being received for 207 positions. Closer to home, the Joburg metro police received an incredible 65000 applications for 1500 metro police trainee positions last year. All of this in five days - between April 30 and May 4. What does this tell us? Cynics will say it shows that people want to work for the traffic department because there's quick buck to be made there from bribes from motorists. The real reason is that this is a reflection of the vast unemployment rate in the country. I'm sure the recruiters going through CVs will realise the extent of joblessness across the spectrum. There are literally untold numbers of graduates who are languishing at home, armed with qualifications and high hopes, but whose dreams remain deferred. While great schools continue to churn out graduates, the marketplace is unable to take them in. There are also enormous numbers of young people who come out of the school system every year who can't go to tertiary education and can't find employment. They are stuck between a rock and a hard place. In January each year, newspapers are packed with matric results, but woe betide the matriculant who traipses their way to the employment queues. Unemployment is an albatross that threatens the future of this country. And the unemployment levels are not going down. More than 27% of South Africans are unemployed - and the prospects of this improving, at least in the near future, look very dim. We're in a recession; our economy is crawling at a snail's pace. And it will take an almighty effort from everyone to lift us out of this morass. It does not take a rocket scientist to work out that unemployment often leads to high levels of crime. The perpetrators - and the overwhelming majority of the victims - are the marginalised, the people in the townships. Look at last week's crime statistics and see who this crime wave affects the most. Sixty-five thousand people applying for 1500 jobs is a wake-up call. Many companies don't even go through CVs - they've outsourced this tedious task to recruiting agencies. President Cyril Ramaphosa, the country is looking to you when you unveil your Medium Term Strategic Framework next month. We are in big, big trouble.