The State has set out to take to the cleaners four members of a syndicate who made R5million by selling electricity units illegally. Mastermind of the syndicate Jeanette Chiliza, 61, and her son Nqobile Chiliza, 26, as well as Themba Dlamini, 36, and Tlhaloganyo Matthews, 31, were jailed in May last year. Dlamini and Matthews remain with five years behind bars, while Jeanette still faced 17 more years. Nqobile still has 11 more years. They were convicted by the South Gauteng High Court on 16451 counts of racketeering, electricity theft and theft of a credit dispensing unit. The syndicate, which entailed selling Eskom's vouchers at half price, operated from De Deur, south of Joburg. None of the four had a history of working for Eskom. The credit dispensing unit, an Eskom machine that prints vouchers, was found to have been stolen. During the trial, the prosecution proved to Judge Leonie Windell that the criminal activities of the four cost Eskom a staggering R5m. The Asset Forfeiture Unit (AFU) has returned to Judge Windell to argue for a confiscation order. The unit was gunning for money and property amassed during the fraud. Judge Windell heard the application briefly on Monday Advocate Sibusiso Mbatha was ready to argue on behalf of the AFU, but a lawyer for the four was not in court. Mbatha explained to Judge Windell that his counterpart had informed him on Friday that he had to travel to KwaZulu-Natal for a family bereavement. Explaining the matter, Mbatha said: “This is an application in terms of the Prevention of Organised Crime Act (Poca). “The State is trying to recover money by taking away whatever benefit they received out of their criminal activities. “In terms of Poca, once the court finds that you're guilty of whatever criminal activity, the State can recover the money. That is what we're doing now,” Mbatha said. The cash-strapped Eskom welcomed the jailing of the four last year. It revealed that it lost about R4bn each year due to electricity theft. The theft happened in various forms, including illegal sale of units, meter tampering and illegal connections. The matter is set down in court for November 16. @BonganiNkosi87