Twenty-four years down the line, the politicians of Mogalakwena Municipality and the Limpopo provincial leadership still make empty promises. The future is dim. What did the democratic government build for its people? It's shocking to witness failure to maintain even the basic infrastructure built by apartheid. The road, D192, spans from Jakkalskuil Village through to Ga-Monare passing through GaMolekwa, Lenkwane, Magagamatala, Uitspan, Masebe Nature Reserve, Ga-Mathekga, Mosuka, Dipere, Nong and GaMonare. This road is only 33km long and is in a bad state. It is riddled with potholes and is unsafe to use. We are poor communities, and we are often forced to spend too much money on repairs to our vehicles. Without road there is no development. Kgabo Seopa Education is the pillar of our strength. But that too is fading away. We recently lost the best high school principal in the entire Bakenburg South Circuit, Raesibe Makhado. She was also a biology and life sciences teacher, and won the best life sciences teacher award year in and year out. She was hailed as the best teacher for our education circuit for more than 12 years. She produced between a 90% and 100% pass rate while at our school, Bathokwa. She drove from the town of Mokopane - 80km away - every day, sometimes even during weekends, to contribute to the empowerment of this poor community. A community that I so much pride myself to be part of, as I'm its product. As we speak, at Bathokwa, even today, there is no water. It is a quintile one disadvantaged school. Agricultural production comes naturally to many Africans. But without water, the piece of land at the school cannot be used for gardening or planting crops to benefit kids from indigent families. At school, learners don't even have water to drink. At times, teachers have to buy water. Our country needs more scientists who are home grown, but there are no laboratories in our schools - 24 years down the line. The spirit of motivated teachers like Ms Makhado is swiftly dying among young teachers. Seeing the dire situation, with the other concerned community members, my wife and I created a charity organisation, Baswarateu. The aim is to emancipate the lives of these poverty-stricken communities, covering 34 school at the Bakenburg South Circuit through sustainable means of education. Indirectly, we have been curbing crime and other undesirable ills of society. Yet, as we lose the most talented teachers like Ms Makhado, it can only be one step forward and two backward. In these communities we have untold stories of orphans who lost their parents due to this dirt road. This is the same road which, in 2011, after the ambulance carrying my sickly father broke down, we lost him. I therefore wonder where is that dream that Albert Luthuli, Oliver Tambo, Steve Biko, Lilian Ngoyi, Walter and Albertina Sisulu, Nelson Mandela, Desmond Tutu, Solomon Mahlangu, Robert Sobukwe, Joe Slovo and other great leaders have fought for? Kgabo Seopa, is a concerned South African who hails from Limpopo.