Johannesburg - Moletsane High School alumni believe that had it not been for their school, they would not be as successful as they are today. That is why for the past four years, they have been giving back to the school that made them the men and women they have become. It all started four years ago when these former Soweto high school learners got together with the aim to give back to their community. However, that get-together did not seem enough and they decided to take it further by identifying projects that could be done at their former school to improve it. The alumni body currently consists of about 150 members and has an annual initiative which provides uniforms to the needy, assists in uplifting the school infrastructure and offers technical and academic career guidance. Some of the previous learners of Moletsane High School with some of the pupils to whom they donated their school uniform. They have successfully managed to achieve the goals they set. On Mandela day every year, they have an objective and this year’s initiative was to clean the schoolyard, which they did. They have renovated the school’s laboratories, upgraded the library and motivated matriculants, among other things. In November last year, they held a “Thank You Teacher’s Day” to honour teachers they owe their success to and gave them certificates of appreciation. They also paid tribute to the teachers who had died by inviting their families to the event. The school's alumnus also made sure that they honour their previous teachers who shaped them in becoming the successful me and women they are today. One of the alumni, Bruce Mothibel found the “Thank You Teacher’s Day” moving. Mothibedi, a laboratory and infrastructure manager at Wits University, said it was because not many schools have former students acknowledging their teachers. Despite their success ploughing back, the group said they still face unruly students who don’t understand the importance of learning. Joseph Theko who is now a freight and communications manager said despite that, they to continue motivating the learners “because we are what we are today and come from the same classrooms and desks they use.” He said they also constantly motivated the learners to abstain from drugs, nyaope and the abuse of alcohol. “Support and unity of members is the reason we have achieved so much and still hoping to do more for the school,” Theko said, adding that they get great support from past learner who also supported the initiative by making financial contributions to the cause. The school’s administrator Mapule Motaung said they were happy and grateful with the contributions saying they were “very helpful.” The alumni is hoping to grow and have more donors from willing to prioritise the children’s education The Star