On-going violent protests in some Pikitup depots in Gauteng left waste management employees not reporting for work, fearing for their lives. On Tuesday morning, another Pikitup truck was stoned and damaged in Westbury. Pikitup Spokesperson Muzi Mkhwanazi said the situation was getting out of hand as trucks were getting damaged. “We are faced with a situation were people have been demanding jobs. They have been going to our depots and blocking operations,” he said. As a result, Mkhwanazi said, the situation had led illegal dumping. “We have been working with the South African Police Services and the Johanesburg Metro Police Departmentin our depots. The lives of our staff are under threat. The situation has led to an increase of illegal dumping. We have suspended services until it is safe,” Mkhwanazi said. The driver and staff were unharmed. Over the past two weeks three Pikitup trucks were stoned and one depot was set alight. Last week, Pikitup Central Camp depot near Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital was set alight allegedly by job seekers demanding work. According to a statement by the City of Johannesburg, the job seekers outnumbered the Johannesburg Metropolitan Police Department (JMPD) officers, who were deployed to maintain peace and had to force their way into the depot. JMPD intensified its deployment to the depot.  The City of Johannesburg condemned the incident. In Zondi, a Pikitup truck was stoned inside the depot allegedly by job seekers who demand to be forcefully employed by Pikitup. Pikitup issued a series of tweets informing residents that Pikitup employees are not on strike, they not working because their lives are threatened. “Pikitup will not render waste collection services in the ff areas serviced by Midrand Depot due to ongoing violent protest demonstrations by job seekers demanding work. Affected areas- Alfred Nzo Ext 10, Thulani Ext 15, Lindokuhle, Kaalfotein Ext 1.2,3,4,5,22, 23 & Albert Luthuli.” On Thursday, Pikitup staff members were locked inside the Avolon depot preventing them from working. Residents were advised to use garden sites to dispose waste where possible. @SthembisoMedia