The UK’s number one parenting event, The Baby Show, made its local debut at the Kyalami International Convention Centre, providing the ultimate shopping and expert-led experience. The show, hosted by Meg Faure, who is co-author of the Baby Sense book series, started on Friday and ends today. Among the highlights were 150 pregnancy and baby-related exhibitors including Medela, Stokke, BabiesRUs, Angelcare and many more. The #MeetUp workshops featured expert talks by Faure alongside feeding, sleep-training and family financial planning experts. Bespoke features on the menu included Colief Colic Clinic, Floradix Juice Bar, Medela Private Breastfeeding Area, Tommee Tippee Culinary Theatre, Crèche, Dad Zone and a Vicks Mommy Pampering Zone. The best baby exhibition to hit local shores yet also had a dedicated catwalk showcasing the latest in maternity, kiddies fashion as well as daily family entertainment and fun. Event director at Clarion Events, Nicole Muller, said the show was about getting the best advice, seeing the best products and bringing the whole family along to enjoy the journey. “No one teaches you to become a parent. It is one of the biggest things in life that you’ll ever do and you’re thrown into this world of products and information, advice that you need that you’ve never had to need before. So the baby show is a one-stop show and baby centre where as a new parent you can come speak to experts and you can celebrate what you’re about to go into. And enjoy it.” Muller said the aim was to provide an environment for families to learn from the best, which is not something readily available everyday. Various parents in attendance sought expert advice on topics closest to their hearts, and unique to their own needs. The cherry on top is that there was something for the dads too. As Muller put it: “It’s a very different world to when our parents brought us up. It’s not that moms stay at home anymore, there are a lot of career women out there, a lot of dual parenting now where dads do get a lot more involved, and they want to be involved.” The Sunday Independent