Those born in that era know that the catchy reggae music tune was as controversial as this week’s Constitutional Court ruling that legalised the possession and use of cannabis in private and literally had the country on a high. The cheeky second verse may be the reason why the song was banned on most radio playlists. To recap, it goes something like this: Singers smoke it And players of instruments too Legalize it, yeah, yeah That’s the best thing you can do Doctors smoke it Nurses smoke it Judges smoke it Even the lawyer do It appears that Tosh may have been prophetic, judging from the excitement that gripped the country shortly after Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo made it legal to puff and pass. Even screaming newspaper headlines such as "Azishe ke", "Dagga on my Stoep" and "Marijuana ruling: South Africa lights up" added to the euphoria over the newfound green light. Tosh was indeed correct when he boldly declared that lawyers, doctors, journalists, nurses and even teachers were also smokers of the “holy herb”. They have been all over social media celebrating along with the Rastafarians. The Constitutional Court did more than make concessions on the cannabis legislation; it also freed the closet smokers to come out. Sadly, the terms and conditions of the ruling went up in smoke amid the crazy celebrations. I can only hope that my two cents worth of caution are not a shade too late for those who didn't bother to read the whole judgment. It's imperative for smokers and non-smokers to note that Justice Zondo did not fully lift the ban on weed. You can still get arrested. It is still illegal to buy or sell dagga. Even more sobering are the serious health concerns associated with the consumption of this weed (yes, it is a weed). The World Health Organisation website warns that there are psychiatric side-effects because dagga impairs memory. The WHO says the herb makes it difficult to remember previously learnt items. Heavy smoking can further induce chronic bronchitis. Advocates of zol are quick to counter the health risks by drawing attention to alcohol and tobacco. They are all poisonous substances with potential harm. Offering alcohol and tobacco as a defence will not save you from killing yourself. A victory worth celebrating is when all illicit substances - cannabis, alcohol and tobacco included - are banned.