Rudolph Deon Lubbe allegedly took his own life in the Vosloorus, Ekurhuleni, hospital's psychiatric ward a fortnight ago. His death brings to three the number of psychiatric patients who apparently committed suicide at the hospital in less than a year, according to DA health spokesperson Jack Bloom. “This is the third death of a psychiatric patient in less than a year. A patient hanged himself in October 2017 and another patient died after jumping out a window in June this year,” Bloom said. Department of Health spokesperson Lesemang Matuka confirmed the incident, saying it was being investigated. “We can confirm that the incident occurred on September 14 and was reported as a serious adverse event to the Head Office Quality Assurance Directorate, the Mental Health Directorate and the Mental Health Review Board. "The matter is still under internal investigation prior to the final report,” Matuka said. Bloom pointed out that although Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi and Gauteng Health MEC Gwen Ramokgopa had visited the hospital recently to address the outbreak of klebsiella that killed six babies, they “did not disclose the death of this psychiatric patient”. In a series of Facebook posts and comments, some of Lubbe's friends and family, who affectionately called him Rudi, expressed sadness over his death. Alice Lubbe said: “Please everyone share this post. This post is about Rudi. We need to prevent this from happening to anyone again.” In another post, she wrote: “It is with a sore heart that I, this morning, announce the death of our beloved Langlaagte Tech friend. RIP Rudolph Deon Lubbe. Your smile and laugh will be missed." Bloom noted that there were currently 43 psychiatric patients at Thelle Mogoerane Hospital, with only four nurses on duty and no full-time psychiatrist. “There are no cameras in the psychiatric ward, which could have prevented the incident.” Matuka said psychiatric patients were kept in two medical wards for males and females, manned by 12 professional nurses, 11 enrolled nurses and 11 assistants. He said there was one psychiatrist per session, and one supporting district psychiatrist. On addressing the issue of the safety of psychiatric patients, other patients and the staff, Matuka said: “There are additional security guards 24 hours a day. Burglar guards have been reinforced." @smashaba The Star