The 22nd installment of the South African Style Awards is back to honour individuals who have made a mark in SA and beyond, says founder of the awards Jillian Grogor. And with every year's growth the awards have witnessed, 10 nominees will be awarded this year on November 18 at Sandton City’s Diamond Walk.  The aim of the awards, according to the founder, is to celebrate style in all spheres of life and also zone into how South African powerhouses conduct themselves and all factors that make them. Speaking to the Jillian Grogor about this year’s awards, she reflected on how the awards came into fruition and the growth it has experienced.  “The SA Style Awards is one of the most celebrated events on the South African calendar, and is by invitation only. Qualifications for inclusion have to do with a benchmark of excellence achieved, and for this reason, it has become a coveted invitation,” explains Jill. “They are dedicated to celebrating the various achievements not exclusive, but rather inclusive, with categories such as next big thing, which celebrates up and coming individuals across a plethora of professions. As well as most stylish icon, which pays tribute to someone who has contributed to their particular industry,” she adds. This year’s ten category award winners were decided by 23 media personnel that vary from journalists, producers and actresses, among many titles, and include Basetsana Khumalo and Terry Pheto. “The SA Style awards are dedicated to finding South African trend-setters and trailblazers, who create a benchmark for excellence in their specific career paths and therefore deserve to be recognised,” says Grogor. “Because of these reasons, I was inspired to stage these awards and have partnered with great brands like Nelson Mandela Square, Sandton City, Diamond Walk and Alfa Romeo, to which amplifies the brand and creates a platform for the awards,” she adds. During last year’s awards, many tweeps questioned who gets to vote and who doesn’t - Jill explains that the awards are not a competition but are a recognition award ceremony.  “We have always invited previous winners and key industry players to nominate people who they believe to have stylishly made their mark in various  career categories.  “22 years in, there have been so many magical memories banked, and what makes it so exciting is that we have sustained and created a platform for awareness around the nominated individuals. Over the years we have followed their successes and this is very rewarding. @AmandaMaliba The Sunday Independent