In marking the countdown to what would have been Nelson Mandela’s 100th birthday, the foundation held the service to honour the late Madikizela-Mandela. As one of the few close family members mourning the death of the Struggle icon, Machel said she was taking her time to process her pain and preferred to be quiet, to feel it and go through it. Unable to hold back her tears, Machel shared her concerns for Madikizela-Mandela’s daughters, Zindziswa and Zenani, who are now facing life without the family’s matriarch. Machel said: “Zenani and Zindzi, who were under Mama’s wings she was there. These children have had very little of an upbringing from their father. “They were toddlers when Madiba went to prison and when he came back, they were young women, married with children. So, for them, Mama bore a big tree.” She said her pain had been heavier since the passing of Madikizela-Mandela. “There is no one who will be able to fill the space in their lives,” she said. She added that the Madikizela-Mandela family were no ordinary family after sacrificing and dedicating their whole lives to liberate and fight for the people of the country. “We have been blessed to have Madiba as the head and Mama as the matriarch of the family. I want you to understand why we are so shaken, why we are still confused. And because we don’t have the courage of our parents, we fear the future,” said Machel. She reflected on the late Struggle stalwart’s fight for education and mentioned the example of her support for the the nationwide #FeesMustFall marches. “If Mama was giving soup to people in Soweto, who is going to attend to them now and do it? “If Mama was comforting young people, whenever they needed her, her door was opened to them. Who is going to stand up and do that?” Ndileka Mandela, eldest grandchild of Nelson Mandela and representing the family, said the family would need continued support. She said: “It’s still very sore. Mommy took us by surprise. It is quite significant that this memorial is held here today because this is the place that big Mommy spent time in solitary confinement, and where she received the news of my father’s accident. “As a family we would like to say we still need you, quite a lot. We need your support. My cousins and aunts are gutted, as I am, but I felt the need to honour this event because of the significance of the 100 days for grand-dad. To the general public, we say thank you so much.” She added that Mama Winnie’s life was a struggle and that the “mother of the nation” got a raw deal in life and they wanted to bury her with dignity. Minister of Public Service and Administration Ayanda Dlodlo, human rights and Rivonia Trial lawyer George Bizos, Minister of Energy Jeff Radebe and Deputy Chief Justice  Raymond Zondo were invited to celebrate the life of the late Struggle icon. @Zwane_2li2ls