An historical account of the story of the legendary Jazz Epistles will soon come to life. The book will be launched on Wednesday night by Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa in partnership with Touch HD. Jazz Epistles: The Living History is described as a precious part of musical history that rightfully belongs to South Africans. It was born out of the group’s reunion concert in 2016. Written by Nandi Molefe, whose dream it is to reignite the dialogue of the importance of the preservation and promotion of South Africa’s heritage and arts.  Since the Jazz Epistles split in 1960, they had ever only performed together once in 2016 at the reunion concert. Hugh Masekela, Abdullah Ibrahim and Jonas Gwangwa mesmerized the sold-out arena as they teleported back into the jazz golden era. They agreed to perform together as a special tribute to the June 16 1976 Soweto Youth Uprising on its 40th year anniversary. This book details the story of the Jazz Epistles and the musical journey they have travelled together in an innovative and intimate way. The band is an all-star team of the greatest talent in African jazz and South African traditional music. The Jazz Epistles comprised of young men in their 20’s who had no idea what the world had in store for them and yet blew the jazz world over. Mthethwa wrote the foreword with the introduction written by the former Mayor of Ekurhuleni Mondli Gungubele.  "It is important to share with younger generations the life stories and narratives of our legends and their immense contribution to our freedom. Our current musical culture has been shaped by these three musical maestros and other legends whose music and contribution resonate with us but also has found eager audiences on the stages of the world,” said Mthethwa. The book has been endorsed by celebrated icons Abdullah Ibrahim, the late Hugh Masekela and Jonas Gwangwa. Proceeds will be donated to their respective charity organisations. Offering a fresh look at the untapped rich history of these world-renowned musical giants is part of an ongoing “SA Legend” series led by the Department of Arts and Culture in celebrating, honouring and documenting South African legends. “Young South African artists need to know that their jazz forefathers shook the world with their raw South African sound. These jazz legends broke down the doors of the Grammys, Hollywood, concert halls and international royal houses. The story of “The Jazz Epistles the Living History” is a privilege to share due to the fact that we still have three of the seven original band members with us in 2017 to honour,” said Molefe. Not only did the Jazz Epistles encompass the native sounds of traditional and choral South African music, but also its impact on the resistant and revolutionary spirit of Sophiatown was fervent. This memorabilia book explores the backstory of how the Jazz Epistles came to be a world renowned jazz band and how their excellence in their craft put South Africa on the global music map. The book touches on the context of SA Jazz in the ‘African jazz’ genre and how the 1960 and 70s impacted on the global anti-apartheid movement. The book launch gala dinner takes place on Wednesday night in with performances by Sydney Mavundla and Nduduzo Makhathini.