Members of the arts and culture fraternity have given their final musical tributes to the Mother of the Nation. On Thursday, hundreds gathered at the Nelson Mandela Joburg Theatre to celebrate the icon’s life. Themed Art Mama Winnie Out: Celebrating the life and legacy of an icon through art, the fraternity aimed to honour and resurrect the values and spirit of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. Some of the struggle icon’s profound moments were depicted through music, acting, poetry, painting, dance, opera and audiovisual expressions. Following the attainment of democracy in 1994, Madikizela-Mandela became a member of Parliament and the deputy minister of arts and culture. Living Legends Legacy Trust chairperson Welcome Msomi said: “We are here to celebrate and offer condolences to the Madikizela and Mandela families. “We are not crying because of the work she did when she was alive. We are not crying; we are happy and she is alive,” said Msomi. “We salute her. On behalf of the trust, we are here to give strength to the family.” Actor and artistic director Tony Kgoroge said: “We had to put in mind that uMama Winnie Madikizela-Mandela was our first minister of arts and culture in the new democratic South Africa. SEE: Nomzamo honours #WinnieMandela at emotional graduation To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “She was one of the ministers who went into government boldly, making sure that the craft is protected.” Kgoroge mentioned that Madikizela-Mandela was among the few leaders who fought against the exploitation of artists. “We are here today to say uMama, we love you, and that you are now our ancestor and you are looking after us and your spirit will live with us.” Local musicians and music executives gathered to pay tribute to the Mother of the Nation, who appreciated the arts. In an emotional short play produced by Kgoroge, Nomzamo Mbatha performed the role of Winnie, while Thuso Mbedu played the role a young Zenani. "My father says his freedom and your freedom cannot be separated," said Mbedu. Thembisa Mdoda said: “She walked with grace, she spoke with grace and fought with grace. I am here to bid the queen mother herself, Nomzamo, goodbye. Self-proclaimed “fashion disaster” Vuyo Bene wore a head piece dedicated to Mama Winnie. He told The Star that he was very fond of the Struggle stalwart and the values she fought for. “I loved her. You know that she was a slay queen that wore weaves. So today I am wearing a weave. Umama wethu womzabalazo.” Local celebrities Cassper Nyovest, Lira, Dr Tumi, The Soil and the legendary Tsepo Tshola were among the many artists who paid tribute to Winnie.  Zwane_2li2ls   The Star 