It’s no secret that many car companies are hard at work looking for new innovative ways to integrate technology in vehicles and how they operate daily. These range from self-driving to electronic cars. Let’s take a look at five companies that have teamed up to up their game.  FORD For years now, Ford has been a proponent of self-driving cars, but recently it has added some flavour to the autonomous vehicles by rolling out self-driving pizza delivery vehicles in Miami. This is not only a bid to provide a service, but a clever way of determining how customers like to use autonomous services. This suggests that the future of tech cars is bright.  BMW and Toyota BMW and Toyota have both invested in May Mobility, a Michigan-based start-up that is developing a fleet of self-driving microshuttles. Not everyone is keen to drive to work or to a friend’s party, so there are a large number of car owners in the US who use Uber. Futurologists believe the humble automobile will evolve from a vehicle that takes you from A to B into an extension of your smartphone. According to Jeff Osborne, the head of Gumtree Autos, one shouldn’t be surprised that tech companies and automakers are joining forces in anticipation of the dawn of a new automobile era. “There’s a definite race to innovate, particularly since the use of cars is falling out of vogue among the ever-­important millennial age group. “Companies are determined to develop the best-of-breed technology that will swing the market in their favour,” he said.  Volvo Some of the innovations that we have seen include Volvo’s Car Tech Fund, which was launched with the aim of  targeting start-ups geared towards artificial intelligence, electrification, autonomous driving and digital mobility. Volvo has already invested in a company specialising in advanced sensors, building on their value proposition of putting safety first.  Honda With the rise of technology in the car industry, we have seen competition rise sharply. Amazon has never been a car company, but they are determined to beat Google in the autos race. Recently, they’ve turned to open-source software in a bid to make voice-based assistant Alexa standard in vehicles. Logitech’s ZeroTouch dashboard mount already comes standard with Alexa integration, and allows drivers to play audiobooks, dictate shopping lists and send e-mails and texts while driving. Some cars can tell the mood we are in as owners. The Honda NeuV generated a lot of attention at CES 2016. The pod concept car comes equipped with AI that can interpret and respond to drivers’ moods and emotions, and respond appropriately by playing preferred music or offering a word of encouragement. I fully agree with Osborne when he says: “The possibilities that technology offer are endless.” @SthembisoMedia