You know you're at Oppikoppi when you wake up in the morning and the party hasn't stopped. Do people even sleep at Oppikoppi? The answer, in most cases, is no. Now that it’s taking place in August again, fans, hippie and indie alike, can look forward to the time of their lives. It’s hard to describe the Oppikoppi experience to people who've never attended the three-day festival. In its 24th year, it’s a place to let loose, enjoy good music and be as expressive as possible in a space where everyone is only thinking about having fun. Bra Hugh to be honoured at #Jazzathon2018 This year’s theme is Nomakanjani, because no matter the weather or circumstances, Oppikoppi will happen. The line-up just got a whole lot more local. Oleta Adams toasts Joy of Jazz with new ‘Third Set’ “At Oppikoppi we've always believed in the music of Mzansi, and this year we will continue to promote and revel in our best local artists. The hit squad that sits in the heart of the machine is bringing it all back home: more focus on fresh local produce and shying away from hyped imports and expensive artists from abroad is the plan," according to the organisers. "What does this mean? This means that the James Phillips Stage will be groomed prim and proper to once again claim its rightful place as the thatch of thatches and the leading light at a festival that has been going through stages. “Expect a tighter and more condensed festival, packed to the brim with bands and artists that reek of faculty and chutzpah.”      The line-up includes Bam Bam Brown, Bed on Bricks, Bongeziwe Mabandla, Brynn, Cockles, CrashCarBurn, Die Horries, Die See, Fokofpolisiekar, Hellcats, Hello Beautiful, Last Chance Seattle, Luma, Ohgod, Retro Dizzy, Satanic Dagga Orgy, Sea of Green, Sho Madjozi, Southern Wild, Spoegwolf, Stoker, Strait-Jackal, Sun Xa Experiment, The Black Cat Bones, The George, Van Pletzen, Vulvodynia and Wonderboom.      Oppikoppi takes place from August 9 to 11 in Northam, Limpopo.  mane_mpi   The Star 