That’s how simple the world’s leading internet entertainment service expands its audience. “It doesn’t matter where the story was produced. It doesn’t matter what language it was in,” Todd Yellin, vice-president of Netflix, said. He added that stories from all around the world want an audience that will enjoy what they have to offer. Yellin was speaking in Rome, Italy, at the annual Netflix See What’s Next event, which is now in its third year. “When I go into Netflix, it suggests to me based on the things I watch,” said Yellin. When it comes to capturing data on subscribers and gauging just what it is people like, Yellin said it was all based on user behaviour rather than demographics. “There is no computer or robot doing the work for us, we have people that use programmes creatively to look into the content creatively. On my team it’s a combination of a team of deep mathematicians and a group of deep movie and TV show experts.” He said Netflix did not have people who would look at specific categories to determine their “taste” communities. He said it was based on people’s behaviour and changes in behaviour that were constantly calculated on a daily basis. The user experience is ultimately about what you like more than the demographics of who you are. With that note, Netflix unveiled 10 European projects, seven of which are original series, to the media in attendance at the event. These include a Dutch original from the Netherlands that will be launched next year, The Wave from Germany, Luna Nera from Italy, La Casa de Papel Part 3 from Spain (Money Heist in English), and The English Game and Turn Up Charlie from the UK. In addition, Netflix will launch two new docu-series, one of which is based on the biggest cold case in French history - the murder of Grégory Villemin, who was killed 34 years ago at the age of four. “Back in the US, we signed with two of the television industry’s top talent to make future television shows exclusive to Netflix - Shonda Rhimes and Ryan Murphy. The internet entertainment service has more than 125million members in over 190 countries that can enjoy 140million hours of TV shows and movies per day, including original series, documentaries and feature films. @mane_mpi