Yesterday, commuters were left stranded and frustrated at bus terminals. At the Rea Vaya bus station on Albertina Sisulu Road in Joburg, a few commuters were milling around the station in the early morning. Thando Mbatha said she travelled from the inner city to school in Auckland Park by bus because it was cheaper than taking a taxi. It costs her R9.50, while a taxi would cost her about R20. Mbatha added: “The taxi fare is expensive, so the strike is inconveniencing me. The bus is also better because it leaves at a certain time, and I don’t have to wait for long hours in a queue.” At the Bree taxi rank, the queues were longer than usual as most of the bus passengers had to resort to using alternative transport, like Mbatha. Bus drivers started a no-work no-pay strike yesterday over salary increases. The National Union of Metalworkers of SA (Numsa) said the strike would continue indefinitely even though workers and unions were going to the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA) today for intervention. Workers are demanding a 12% wage increase, while employers are offering 7%. They also demand that alternative drivers on the long- distance buses be paid full wages, instead of getting only a certain percentage. Numsa spokesperson Phakamile Hlubi said: “Our members are fighting for a living wage. The conditions bus drivers have to endure in a democratic South Africa are shameful.” She said the union was willing to negotiate with bus companies, but they did not want to come to the party. “We want to negotiate, but employers in this sector are belligerent, greedy and selfish. “They want to worsen the working conditions of our members. We do not have a problem giving concessions, but we cannot be the only ones doing it,” Hlubi added. Among the companies that are affected by the strike are Megabus, the Gautrain buses, Greyhound, Golden Arrow, Rea Vaya, A Re Yeng in Pretoria, Lowveld Bus Company in Limpopo and PAL Bus in Mpumalanga. The SA Federation of Trade Unions has pledged its support to the striking bus drivers. “The unions are standing firm against companies who, like so many employers these days, have been intransigent and have consistently frustrated attempts to negotiate a settlement,” said spokesperson Patrick Craven. Transport Minister Blade Nzimande called for the speedy resolution of the strike. “The only reasonable outcome that government expects from the negotiations is the immediate resumption of bus operations while labour and employers are finding a permanent solution to the impasse,” he said. Hlubi apologised to commuters for the inconvenience “because we know it’s the ordinary community members who are most affected by the strike”.