She also ensured that those who worked for her at her Orlando, Soweto, home, cooking her food, cleaning her house and washing her clothes also felt that love. In the cold weather outside the house of the 81-year-old Struggle stalwart, Nozane Ndothi, who had worked for Madikizela-Mandela since 2010, joined scores of mourners to celebrate the life of the Mother of the Nation. Ndothi, who was dressed in her work clothes, said she decided to take a break from cleaning the house and be part of history because of the impact that Madikizela-Mandela had on her life. “I decided to come out here to celebrate the life of Mama. She played a huge role in the liberation Struggle and in my life. “She stood up and fought for what is right. She didn’t fear anything. Even though she was intimidated, she never gave up. “Instead, she gained more strength and fought back,” said Ndothi. Speaking to her, one can sense from her voice that she had a deep connection with the Struggle icon. “We had our own ups and downs, but not once did she treat me or any of my colleagues badly,” she said. “My relationship with her was close to my heart and special. We had a strong connection and that motivated me to wake up and come to work every day,” she added. Ndothi, who used to clean and wash for Madikizela-Mandela, said she would miss the former ANC Women’s League president. “Mama was a caring person. She showed me and the rest of my colleagues love. She accepted us as family members. I have had many bosses, but Mama Winnie was different. She had her unique way to show love and support to her staff,” said Ndothi. One of the big gifts that Madikizela-Mandela left Ndothi with was helping her son to get into the University of Johannesburg to study to become a chartered accountant. Ndothi said her son was now in his second year at the university and she looked forward to seeing him following Madikizela-Mandela’s example and becoming a leader in his chosen industry after completing his studies. “My son is happy. He is doing well at school, thanks to the Mother of the Nation. “I will always remember what she has done for me and my son. I want him to be the best in what he does. I want him to be a leader like Mama Winnie. “He must take over the baton and be a great example,” said Ndothi. Zimbili Ncaphayi, who also worked for the Struggle stalwart, said she would miss Madikizela’s sense of humour. “Mama used to joke and say, you are not here to eat my food. Please go back to work she knew how to treat people. “She took care of us,” added Ncaphiyi, who had been working for the stalwart for the past four years. Ncaphayi said Madikizela- 
Mandela, who was a fashion trendsetter, would often give them clothes. “Mama would call us and tell us to choose which items we want from her closet. She had great taste when it came to clothes. We all admired her and how she dressed.” Designer Ephraim Molingoana, of Ephymol Designs, had a close relationship with the Struggle icon and said that she had extraordinary style. He had designed garments for her over the years. “I had a good relationship with her. There was a time while she was with me that she called her stylist Nandipha and told her she was with me because I was designing new clothes for her. “She was joking around, saying Nandipha was making boring things for her,” he laughed, as he recalled Madikizela-Mandela’s free spirit. “She was always full of jokes. She had an amazing sense of style. From her robes to her jewels and her pearls. “She loved her pearls. Her robes were always on the flamboyant side.” Molingoana said the next generation would never see the great styles of yesteryear that Ma Winnie wore with ease. “I remember chatting to a friend of mine who was styling looks like Winnie and we had wanted her to do a runway show based on her style, however, that did not happen. “I have so much love and respect for the iconic fashion woman that she was, Molingoana added. - Additional reporting by Mpiletso Motumi  @SthembisoMedia 