Johannesburg- The passing of struggle icon Winnie Madikizela-Mandela has sent the country into mourning. Ordinary citizens voiced their opinions on who the Mother of the Nation’ was to them and her influence in the country.    “The time that her progeny and her children are going through must be sad right now. To be such an iconic woman for the country, it is a devastating shock because we expected her to alive for much longer... it’s really sad that we are losing iconic figures that were there during the struggle,” said 19-year-old Tshepiso Mbata from Tsakane, East Rand. “I don’t know what to do, we have lost a great deal. When we had meetings, she was the one who addressed us. She was our mother, she carried us. We have lost too much. When I heard about her passing, I could not sleep. I had a sleepless night thinking about how she has left us. She had promised people a few things and she was very promising. We cried to her when were not paid on time, she helped us get pained quicker,” said Sarah Poo (52) from Protea who works at Luthuli House.    “I think it’s very sad that she has left us. I don’t think we’re going to have another woman like her. She was a good woman, I must say,” said Phillip Howell (43) from Roodepoort.  “We have lost a very big veteran of the struggle. It is a great loss to me and the whole of South Africa. Young people and old, each and everyone loved that lady. It is a great loss to everyone; even people from neighbouring countries, who are working in Johannesburg, pass by and ask about her. It’s a great loss,” said 57-year-old NJ Mosala from Orange Farm.    “Winnie’s passing makes no difference to me. People are just going to be sad and will be spending more money on funerals and decorations. They’ll probably do a thick tombstone like they did for Walter Sisulu and Joe Mafela. I can’t say that I feel the effect of the difference she had made, but it’s my lack of knowledge of what she had done,” said Michael Marais (33) from Robertsham. “She is the mother that we’ve always known and we learned a lot from her. As younger people, we wish that we learned more and that we bring change, just like she did when she fought for the struggle. We are still here to continue where she left off. Our hearts are broken and this is painful. She must rest in peace,” said Nkensani Ndlovu (49) from Phumula, East Rand in isiZulu. Madikizela-Mandela died at the age of 81 at Milpark Hospital after suffering a long illness. 