While most people wore political party T-shirts or all black, some chose to show off colourful traditional clothes. One was Mama Joy Chauke, who wore a colourful xibelani and a black T-shirt featuring Madikizela-Mandela with her defiant fist up. Chauke also painted her face in the ANC colours and paired her clothing with beads in the same colours. “Mama Winnie loved tradition so I also wanted to show my own,” she said. “Mama Winnie inspired us and was the strongest woman in the world. We are here to show her love one last time.” Another attendee, Sindi Tshabalala, wore a bright yellow traditional Xhosa dress. She said it paid homage to a younger Madikizela-Mandela. “She used to dress like this as a young woman. I feel great that we had a mother who taught us that wearing your cultural clothes was important. “From the boardrooms to businesses to politics, she showed us that our traditional clothes are okay. She always wore her traditional clothes with a beautiful doek.” The EFF chose to pay homage to Madikizela-Mandela by painting a big red flag with her image wearing a crown. ANC Women’s League members showed up in their numbers in their green and black uniforms. Methodist Church women’s guild members were also out in force, wearing their impeccable red and white uniforms. Gauteng Premier David Makhura’s spokesperson Phumla Sekhonyane chose to pay tribute by wearing a T-shirt with Madikizela-Mandela’s face and a traditional Zulu pleated skirt. “I call her a revolutionary, a warrior, a mother. She represents strength and resilience,” Sekhonyane said, adding that young people had a lot to learn from Madikizela-Mandela’s legacy. The Queen actress Zandile Msutwana wore a black dress and a black iqhiya nesikhafu sombhacho. She said: “I thought it would be appropriate to wear something shortish just to give it some beautiful look. We all know her for wearing her colourful traditional regalia. “For some reason, I sense we all thought she was immortal, and yet she is human like us. She is an absolute marvel.” Mamello Makha, 28, wore bright ANC colours. “I wanted to look beautiful. Mama Winnie was an example of beauty. She was beautiful even in her last days,” she said. From head to toe, Nani Ha-
debe from Jabulani, Soweto, wore ANC regalia. “I dress like this every day,” she said. “I am an ANC member through and through.”