SOUTH African Comedian Trevor Noah has has been named as one of TIMES Magazine’s 100 most influential people of 2018. TIME magazine released its annual list of the 100 most influential people in the world on Thursday. The list was divided into four categories: pioneers, artists, leaders, and icons. The Daily Show host was listed underneath the pioneers category. The magazine paired guest contributors to write about each of the 100 people on the list. This is what Oscar-winning actress, Lupita Nyongo wrote about Noah. “Trevor, who grew up biracial in apartheid South Africa, has the unique ability to tell truths that bring us together. He is uncannily skilled at holding up a mirror to whatever room he is in,” wrote Nyongo. “He makes us laugh with each other and brings us that much closer to under­standing one another.” The Black Panther actress is set to play Noah's mother in the film adaption of his best selling book, Born a Crime. Noah is joined on the list of 100 by Black Panther star, Chadwick Boseman; actress and fiance of Prince Harry, Meghan Markle; United States president, Donald Trump; Roger Federer and breakout rapper, Cardi B. Noah has not posted a response to his selection but fellow South Africans sent through their congratulations to the Creative Arts Emmy Award winner. @MalcolmTarbitt said tweeted, "Well done @Trevornoah for making TIME magazine's 100 most influential people! Keeping making us proud. Onwards & upwards!” while @simkyazze said “Not bad for a boy who was "born a crime"! #trevornoah.” @CumLaudeGal was  very impressed with the way Noah's career has been progressed, tweeting: “There's no stopping this guy. He's on a path of his own. No competition whatsoever!!!” Another fan, @KleintjieWebb tweeted, “Well done to @Trevornoah on all his recent achievements! We must give credit to the absolute visionaries who put him at the helm of the Daily Show and kept him there when US uptake was low. You're making us proud homeboy. #TimeMagazine #Times100 #ProudlySA.” Noah launched his foundation which focuses on helping orphans empower themselves with educational programmes, skills development and drug prevention in Johannesburg earlier this month. @Chulu_M 