Speaking on behalf of the Congress of South African Students (Cosas), Tshapelo Phiri said the organisation was happy with the turnout of learners at the service. “We are pleased that learners listened to our call to attend the memorial service of the Mother of the Nation. We have different schools from different parts of Gauteng here,” said Tshapelo, a Grade 11 pupil from Ekurhuleni. “We spoke to a number of school principals about today’s programme and they had agreed to release the learners. We must always remember that learners played a huge role in the liberation Struggle,” he said. Lwazi Buthelezi, a Grade 10 learner, said pupils had used buses to get to Orlando Stadium. “We left very early in the morning to come here to honour Mama Winnie. “I don’t regret coming here. I think it was a good decision that Cosas made to get all learners to be part of the service,” Lwazi said. Earlier, Tony Mpumela of Cosas told The Star that Madikizela-Mandela fought for a better education for them and, therefore, it was befitting to attend the service. “She represented us. She was a pillar of strength for many of the learners in Soweto and parts of Gauteng. We believe it is fitting for all learners to go to the service and honour Mama Winnie,” he said. Some pupils were seen singing and dancing inside the stadium while others complained about hunger and thirst after a long day. “I feel bad for coming here. I did not eat breakfast when
I left home. When the Cosas leaders instructed us to come here, they didn’t give us food or water. All I want is food, water and to go home,” said Matsidiso Moore. One of the schools in Soweto that released its learners to attend the service was Selelekela Secondary. Nonkululeko Manganye, a Grade 11 pupil, said she had learnt a lot from newspapers about Madikizela-Mandela. “I am so happy that I got a chance to learn and know more about this iconic human being. Without a doubt she was the Mother of the Nation and a fighter. “I learnt that it is important to fight for what you believe in. Mama Winnie fought until the end. She needs to be celebrated by generations to come,” Nonkululeko said. @SthembisoMedia