That’s the power that talent has afforded Mahlangu, South Africa’s leading Ndebele artist and an international icon, who was honoured with an honorary doctorate by the University of Johannesburg yesterday. Mahlangu, 81, said she was humbled to be honoured with a doctorate. “Being recognised at home is such a blessing. It shows that my people still see the great work that I do. It’s good to be honoured while I am still alive,” she said. “I heard that they will be calling me ‘doctor’. I still can’t believe it. I didn’t go to school because in my area there were no schools for black people,” said Mahlangu, who grew up in Mthambothini, Middelburg. She lives with her grandchildren. “One of my biggest dreams is to see all my grandchildren taking education seriously and doing what they love most,” she said. “It’s important for parents to allow their kids to do what they love. We need to support them in their dreams and ensure that they come true.” Mahlangu began painting at the age of 10 after being taught the art of Ndebele homestead wall painting and beadwork by her mother and grandmother. Her work first won international attention in 1989 after her inclusion in the important exhibition Magiciens de la Terre at the Centre Georges Pompidou in Paris. In 1991, Mahlangu was the first woman to create artwork on a BMW 525i sedan. Last year, gogo Mahlangu was again commissioned by the BMW Group, to put her unique artistic touch on a BMW 7 Series, and the vehicle was displayed at the Frieze Art Fair in London. Simultaneously, the original BMW 525i “Art Car” was part of the exhibition “South Africa: The Art of a Nation” at the British Museum, highlighting Esther’s key role. As a national icon and custodian of heritage, Mahlangu has been honoured with awards and medals by the government many times, and by more than one president. She received the Order of Ikhamanga, silver class, in 2006, as well as the Mpumalanga Arts and Culture Award, an award from the French Ministry of Culture, two awards from Radio Ndebele and many others. Professor Federico Freschi, executive dean of the Faculty of Art, Design and Architecture at UJ, said they decided to honour Mahlangu because of her legacy. “With this honorary doctorate we recognise Esther Mahlangu for her legacy as a cultural entrepreneur, skilfully negotiating local and global worlds, and as an educator. Indeed, as a visionary individual she traverses what to others are insurmountable political barriers,” he said. Freschi said Mahlangu was a living legend. “In the context of current debates in South African institutions of higher learning on questions of decolonisation of the curriculum, Esther Mahlangu is a living example of how authentic African knowledge systems can be articulated meaningfully and sustainably. “In her we have an icon worthy of being looked up to by the next generation of creatives, and the university is greatly honoured to confer the degree of Philosophiae Doctor honoris causa upon her.” The Steve Tshwete municipality congratulated Mahlangu on her recent achievement. Acting municipal manager Bheki Khenisa said: “We congratulate her, she deserves it.” @SthembisoMedia