Joburg Theatre, in collaboration with the Hugh Masekela Heritage Foundation, will usher in Africa Month with a heart-warming celebration of Masekela’s theatrical music in an exclusive four-part performance. The Mandela stage, from May 3 to May 6, will be transformed into a tribute stage to honour the legend who was affectionately known as Bra Hugh. “A celebration of this kind is long overdue, and I wish that Bra Hugh was still alive to witness his talent being celebrated in this manner,” City of Joburg’s MMC for community development Nonhlanhla Sifumba said. “Masekela graced stages across the world, playing for presidents and ordinary people alike. He stood tall in the dark days of apartheid, highlighting Africa’s and South Africa’s plight to the world.” A brilliant and headstrong artist, he was never shy to express his views and love for the African continent. A lot is known about South African music legend Masekela, but less about his affection and contribution to musical theatre in South Africa. His early years found him involved in the productions of the African Jazz and Variety roadshow and the internationally acclaimed King Kong - Africa’s first jazz opera. Bra Hugh was an integral force in the creation of the country’s most successful international musical Sarafina! which had an incredible run on Broadway from 1988 to 1989, with a parallel cast running in Europe and Australia. His last theatrical offering was Gone Native: The Life and Times of Regina Brooks, which he musically initiated, composed and directed. It was staged successfully at the Soweto Theatre last year. The performances taking place in May will include a melodic and dramatic tapestry of songs from Sarafina!, directed by Mbongeni Ngema, Songs of Migration, directed by James Ngcobo, and Gone Native: The Life and Times of Regina Brooks, directed by Makhaola Ndebele. The celebration will feature, among others, renowned artists such as Thandiswa Mazwai and Sibongile Khumalo, who have previously collaborated with Bra Hugh. Tickets range from R150 to R300, and can be accessed by visiting www.joburgtheatre.com, or calling 0861 670 670, as well as through Webtickets. For group bookings of 10 or more, contact the theatre directly at 011 877 6853/6815.