She hosted an intimate, cosy reading session in Auckland Park, Joburg recently. The author, who is the project manager of marketing agency Instant Grass International, anchored the session, which included a reading from her book, followed by a discussion opened to the floor. People shared how they related to what she speaks about and how they’ve found a way to deal with their own situations. “I’ve started writing about what’s going to make me happy, because I don’t want to ever look back. I told myself, 'let me live’. This book is an indication to say that I am comfortable with my mistakes. When you mess up, it’s okay. “The first step was learning that I can rely on myself. And being open to the fact that I don’t know everything was the second one. And in not knowing everything, I constantly put myself in a position of learning and I will read up about things,” Kubheka said. Speaking about her experience of getting herself in and out of debt, her book is a searing read that looks into how she has blossomed from the hardships in her life. “In my journey and how I managed to get into so much debt, I experimented by trying to start my own things, which led me to losing a lot of things and being in debt. And I trusted a lot of people. “I’d approach someone and propose an idea and then I got disappointed a lot. I’m self-reliant, but I’m an advocate of finding support systems - if not people, then things. And there are always answers online.” The 28-year-old mother moved to Cape Town because of a relationship, and she remembers that after they broke up, her then partner had said to her, ‘you’re cursed’. Because so many bad things were happening in her life over a period of time, she started believing it. It has been an 11-year journey at Instant Grass International and she says her biggest lesson has been learning to work with people and understand them, and in turn learning to understand herself. Kubheka has always had a passion for writing and says she came into writing through poetry. “I struggled to write for five years, because of everything I was going through. Writing Comfort Food helped me break the cycle. I needed to give myself that freedom and allow others to share in that freedom in their own journeys." Enjoying her work and growth within the marketing industry, Kubheka says she wanted a space for the individual; a physical place for one to seek consolation and refuge. “My idea was to create an offline blog of all these conversations that I secretly note in my head when I talk to people or experience certain things. I wanted to challenge the notion of not being able to speak openly about uncomfortable topics, issues around sexuality, generational gaps in relationships and even toxic relationships among friends and family. "Many of my pieces are bits of many stories and truths lived by different people put together to tell one story.” Kubheka says truth is the foundation of her book, and she feels she needed to be honest with herself first, because she was in denial. “I was living a life where I thought, ‘I am special, why is this happening to me?’ I had to be honest with the fact that I am not that special, I am on a journey. This is the truth about my journey. I needed to be honest and forgive myself.” She is looking to turn her book into an audiobook to connect with more readers and wants to inspire and empower young people in Africa. @LesegoMakgatho