There was a lot of activity at the home of the Struggle icon on Thursday prior to their arrival, with a catering company decorating a marquee in which the ANC leadership met with the family. The interior of the marquee was decorated in the governing party’s colours. The main road leading to the house had a heavy security presence. And ANC Women’s League members in their party regalia sang and danced as they waited for the NEC members to arrive. Leading the delegation was the party’s head of elections, Fikile Mbalula, accompanied by Dr Aaron Motsoaledi, Lindiwe Zulu, Senzo Mchunu, Pravin Gordhan and Nomvula Mokonyane, among others. A short prayer session was held and a book of condolences was launched by Deputy President David Mabuza, who signed it along with the other NEC members. Mabuza said the ANC was proud of the role that Madikizela-Mandela had played in the Struggle and that they would celebrate her life. “We thank all those who came to the house to offer their condolences,” he said, adding that Madikizela-Mandela embodied the Struggle and that the ANC held her name in high regard. “Anyone is allowed to come to the house and pay their respects, including the opposition parties,” Mabuza said. “We are going to take this opportunity, as we celebrate her life, to send a message to the ANC to say the journey continues Members must unite, take over the spear and proceed” Speaking to The Star on the sidelines, NEC member Ronald Lamola said Madikizela-Mandela was a voice of reason to the ANC leadership. He recalled the times he spent with Madikizela-Mandela. “During our disciplinary hearing in the ANC (when he faced suspension as a member of its Youth League), she supported us and gave us words of encouragement. “She would say to the then leadership of the ANC ‘allow them to be youngsters. Let them make mistakes, young people have a licence to make mistakes. Just correct their mistakes (but) don’t stifle them.’ “I think it’s a message that the ANC should have listened to. As I walked into the house, I remembered her words.” Lamola said Madikizela-
Mandela was one of the reasons he didn’t leave the ANC to form a political party. “She used say to us ‘the ANC is your home and whatever grievances you have, raise them within the structures’. “She was a reason we didn’t leave at that time,” he said. Lamola said the ANC should honour Madikizela-Mandela by speeding up the process of expropriating land without compensation. “She was passionate. She would speak from time to time about the land question. I think the ANC must honour her by ensuring that expropriation without compensation happens immediately across all spheres of government.” Madikizela-Mandela will be laid to rest in Fourways on April 14. @SthembisoMedia