Community members attacked and prevented emergency crews from attending to the fires, which resulted in the death of the mother and the house burning to the ground. Both incidents happened in Ekurhuleni on the morning of New Year’s Day. One crew member sustained serious injuries and a case of assault was opened. Ekurhuleni Disaster and Emergency Management Services spokesperson William Ntladi said the first attack happened in Mailula Section, Ekurhuleni, where firefighters were attending to a burning house. “As they were halfway to the scene, they came across the Khoza and Mabuya intersection, where cars belonging to people at a party had blocked the entire road. The crew could not move in and, unfortunately, the engine’s mudguard got hooked on two vehicles and it scratched them. Then the car's owner came out and was supported by some of the partygoers.They stopped the truck driver and took out the keys from the ignition. Some people started dancing on top of the fire engine and even took selfies,” said Ntladi. He said crew members could not take pictures of the incident, to avoid aggravating the situation. The altercation lasted for nearly five hours before the four-man crew managed to get another truck from another fire station to attend to the fire. A metro officer calmed the situation. The truck’s keys were later found at a restaurant that had been hosting the party. “By the time the second vehicle arrived, the house was engulfed in flames and we believe that this could have been prevented had it not been for the unnecessary delays,” said Ntladi. He said the same about the second incident in Ramakonopi West, in Katlehong, which resulted in the death of a mother, whose child was severely burnt. A fire truck and an ambulance crew were called to attend to a burning back room in which the mom and child were trapped. However, the crew were attacked after climbing out of their vehicles. Ntladi said the residents were complaining that they had taken time to arrive, but it has since been discovered that they had called the police 10111 number instead of the fire emergency number 10177. One crew member was physically assaulted with fists, and a case of assault has since been opened. “I would like to state that 10111 belongs to police emergencies and there could have been a delay in the police trying to contact us. However, this was a mistake caused by the community and, as result, we could not manage to save the life of that mother. There was no retaliation from our crew,” said Ntladi. He added that attacks on fire emergency and ambulance crews in Ekurhuleni often resulted in damaged emergency services vehicles and staff being booked off. One recent incident involved Prophet Paseka "Mboro" Motsoeneng, who allegedly attacked a female paramedic who was dispatched to his church to attend to a sick three-year-old girl, who later died. There were other incidents in Gauteng last year. In March, a 33-year-old paramedic was shot and killed near the Odi EMS base in Mabopane, Tshwane. In July, personnel were assaulted and a fire engine shot at in Dukathole informal settlement in Germiston. In September, paramedics were attacked in Cosmo City after responding to a fake emergency report. They were unharmed. In October, two paramedics were robbed at gunpoint in Alexandra, north of Joburg. The robbers made off with their wallets and cellphones. A few days later, two other attacks were reported in Ekurhuleni. In one of the incidents, paramedics were robbed and assaulted in the Somalia informal settlement, Vosloorus. In the other incident, an ambulance was stoned in Palm Ridge. It is estimated that 80 attacks on paramedics occurred in Cape Town last year and more than 100 in 2016. Last month, the Health and Other Services Personnel Trade Union of South Africa (Hospersa) threatened to withdraw its members' services in a bid to force the government to act. Last month, they threatened to go on strike if the government did not deploy the army in places where attacks were a common occurrence in the Western Cape. Hospersa spokesperson Suzman Ntlatleng said the government had not been addressing the matter.  @lindilesifile