The Frankle sisters’ pass means St Andrew’s School for Girls in Bedfordview, Ekurhuleni, achieved a 100% pass rate. Wyome and Solyle, 18, said they were best friends, and being in the same grade had only made their bond stronger. “It was nice having someone so close to you going through the same things as you, so in that respect we were very lucky,” they said. “We support each other, and because we take some of the same subjects, we were able to help each other.” However, they said they did not study together. Wyome obtained seven distinctions, while Solyle got five. They both did eight subjects and had hoped to get six distinctions each. For Solyle, passing matric meant “finishing off a very long journey that has had many difficult chapters but also gives way to a new beginning for both me and my sister”. On the other hand, for Wyome it meant achieving something amazing - finishing school.  “Not many people get the opportunity to do that, and I feel very blessed to have accomplished such a big achievement,” she said. The sisters said that while preparing for their exams, they had to work hard and take occasional breaks. “We had to find ways to relieve stress at home because we didn’t have enough hours to get all the studying in. It makes you very jealous, seeing all your other friends going out on social media when you have decided to stay home, but I believe it was the better decision to stay focused on my academics instead of going out,” Wyome said. They said being among the top-performing pupils was not what they had striven for. “We simply strove to do our best,” they said. Solyle said she would have loved to study medicine, but her application had been declined. “I will undertake a BSc Genetics at UCT in an attempt to bridge across to medicine. “I have also applied to UK universities and wait to see if I have been accepted for medicine there,” she said. Wyome said she would be studying Actuarial Science at UCT, but may also go to the UK if accepted. “We have considered that if we both go to the UK to study, we may be in different towns.  “We are prepared to live apart, but I think it would be difficult. “We do everything together and have only ever spent one birthday apart, so it would definitely be strange to no longer have your best friend right by your side wherever you go.  “We are prepared to separate, but understand it is much easier said than done. “It would be like losing your best friend and sister at the same time, so nothing you do could prepare you for that,” Wyome said.