According to residents, executive mayor Herman Mashaba had agreed to meet them on Wednesday to hear their grievances and seek a resolution for all the destroyed homes. Mashaba did not arrive and three hours after the meeting was supposed to take place, members of the community closed off Randfontein Road and started burning tyres and disturbing traffic flow in the area.  However, Luyanda Mfeka, Mashaba’s spokesperson said: “The level of damages are still being assessed and a report will be issued. The mayor, however, did not commit to being there today.” A committee called “Protea Glen concerned residents” was formed to deal with the aftermath of the storm this past weekend. Bernard Sebona, the ANC Youth League chairperson, said because the mayor didn’t turn up, the community decided to hold its own meeting to try to find solutions. According to him, the Gift of the Givers was on board and people had come forward and assisted with food parcels and blankets to help the affected families. He also said that ANC officials would come to assess the damage and see where they could assist. Sebona said more than 100 houses in Glenridge alone were damaged.  Furious residents still want Cosmopolitan housing company to account for the quality of the buildings. Attempts were made by The Star to contact the building company, but staff were still on holiday. Tony Molefe, a community leader, said the main issue was that the government did not want to be accountable for people’s needs. “The entities are playing marbles, because the city says it is the provincial government’s responsibility and the provincial government says it is the city’s responsibility. “The people are being sent back and forth and they have nowhere to go. Also, most municipal departments are telling us that they are still on leave which also upsets me very much,” said Molefe.  He also said that if their plight was not heard, they would close off major roads as a last resort because nobody was willing to assist them. The N12 was closed off yesterday when residents continued protesting, burning tyres and blocking traffic yet again.  Eighteen-year-old Nqaba Tantsi, of Glenridge, said he feared for his life during the storm. “It just became dark outside and I went into my outside room. Something told me to lie down in between the couch and bed as the roof flew right off,” he said. “The bed fell on top of my one leg and I could not move, and the hailstones were falling on top of me at that moment. I tried with all my strength to remove the bed and I then ran into the house.”  Miss Maribe, 43, a resident of Glenridge whose entire roof was blown off and the wall of her house completely crumbled, said she had contacted her insurance company and was told that they would come and assess but they had still not shown up late yesterday. “What pains me the most is that my case is an emergency case because there is no roof and the entire structure has fallen off,” she said. She stays with three relatives in temporary tents that were put up just after the storm. The Star contacted Outsurance and was told to send an e-mail and that the message would be delivered to the relevant person.