This former learner from Saheti School won gold for his geothermal energy project at the Eskom Expo for Young Scientists held at Wits University two years ago.  Stelios went on to win bronze at an international competition in 2016. That is where he impressed a professor, who believed that his idea could be implemented.  “One professor approached me and said that if I was in-
terested, I must contact him when I’m out of school and he would try to provide some guidance as to how to carry this forward. “I’m not sure how, but maybe he would propose something to Eskom,” Stelios told The Star.  His school, Saheti School, a Greek independent institution in Senderwood, Bedfordview, expected him to obtain eight distinctions.  However, he not only managed to get eight distinctions, but nine: in accounting, Afrikaans, English, history, life orientation, maths, modern Greek, physical sciences and advanced programme maths, with five subjects in the A+ category.  He managed to achieve the joint second highest average at Saheti (90%). In addition to that, Stelios has been named an outstanding achiever by the IEB, ranking within the top 5% of IEB candidates nationally in six or more subjects. He was also ranked within the top 1% nationally in maths. He reflected on his golden victory at Wits with pride and excitement.  “I, as a Grade 10 learner, had to stand in front of professors and explain my project, and they had to test your knowledge of science. “I answered all their questions with ease and they gave me a gold award. I think only 3% of all participants achieved gold; only two in my school got it,” he said.  “I also worked a model, and that really impressed the professors.” The project explored how the country could draw geothermal energy underground in Limpopo.  “Many people in San Francisco (in the US) are using this type of energy and it’s proving to be much more efficient than wind energy because it’s not as volatile.  “It’s always there and always will be there. It doesn’t depend on the day being sunny or being windy. It’s just hot water that comes from our earth.” However, Stelios was unsure whether South Africa could afford geothermal energy. His research indicated that a team here would have to dig three times deeper than the Americans did in San Francisco. “I don’t think it’s viable because it would cost three times more than what the Americans paid. Plus, we’d have to try to get expertise into this country in order to do it,” he said.  Stelios is now headed for Wits, where he was provisionally accepted for medicine and actuarial science.  His exposure to Wits during the Eskom expo inspired him to enrol at the institution.  “It definitely opened my eyes to the university’s facilities. It showed me that the professors were caring.” However, by late last month, he was still undecided about what to study. Stelios said he planned to make a final decision “after a little bit of job shadowing”.