Set to be the highlight of February, the event will take place on Valentine's Day. “This year, the line-up is bigger and better. I'm still shocked that I am on it again this year so I'm still thinking about what it is I will be bringing. "Being in the line-up kind of said to me ‘people need to know who you are on stage’ - who and how I want to be remembered on the night is key,” said the 2016 Idols runner-up. His goals for the year include getting a nomination for his work. His album Never Lost had a public launch in September. “So far the response has been beautiful, it won't quieten down. I guess it's the reason behind everything that is happening now because I never thought two years after Idols I'd still be relevant and getting booked.” Shobede said so far his biggest highlight has been being acknowledged as an artist. “I've heard a lot of conversations where people compare me to the great guys I will be performing with at EVOL and that has been a blessing for me. "Other than that I think everything else falls right in between because we do this music thing not just to entertain but we want to be remembered for what we've done and who we are, for the difference we made or character we brought to the scene. "I think I am being appreciated for me and not being compared to people like Ringo or Luther Vandross. That's been my highlight.” For new and upcoming artists, Shobede’s advice is to always aim for the moon. “When I look back at my life, I realise that it has only been beautiful around music. I imagined a lot of things would have happened by now and they haven't happened but as a new artist what do you do when things don't work out the way you want? "You keep working, pushing, imagining new ways of going forward.” He finds it fulfilling when people listen to his album and comment on how much they like it. “I think one of the things that has kept me relevant and in people's faces is that I've never wanted to back down from any failures I've had so far. "Unfortunately for me as an upcoming artist, I don't have a Akanamali or Amazulu hit and that means I need to work twice as hard to be booked and for people to remember me and buy my music.You keep working, that’s all there is to it.” Shobede is signed to Gallo Records and has continued his relationship with the company since he finished Idols. “Gallo has put in a lot of work with the album and they have listened to me, they are always there to hear my voice. I feel appreciated there.” This year he wants to challenge himself by doing a live version of his album even if it means releasing it as a deluxe edition of the original. Shobede will share the stage with the likes of Kelly Khumalo, Ntando, Vusi Nova and Bongani Radebe at the Times Square Sun Arena in Menlyn, Pretoria, for the Evening of Love concert on Valentine's Day.