He died in Joburg on Wednesday at the age of 79. “It is with great sadness that we announce the untimely passing of Professor Kgositsile, affectionately known as Bra Willie,” said a short statement from his family. His friend and fellow writer Mandla Langa said the national poet laureate died at Milpark Hospital after he was operated on. “He suffered from blood circulation problems. He was ill during the festive season, and in the new year he got critical and was hospitalised. He was operated on but sadly passed away. “He was with family members when he passed away,” Langa said. He said Kgositsile would be remembered for his creativity and for training young poets and writers. “He was a people’s person. He was a committed member of the ANC I will miss his insightful mind and warmth. He was the most inspirational person I’ve ever known,” Langa said. He said Kgositsile, who wrote This Way I Salute You in 2004 and When The Clouds Clear in 1999, was survived by his wife Baby, seven children and grandchildren. The professor and Struggle icon was previously married to the Speaker of Parliament, Baleka Mbete. Tributes poured in on Twitter for the revered poet. Minister of Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa wrote on his page: “We begin 2018 on a very sombre note with the passing of one of South Africa’s most influential and exceptional poets, who went on to become the wRite Association’s national poet laureate and a member of @ArtsCultureSA’s Living Legends Legacy Programme, Prof Keorapetse Kgositsile.” @Abantu_ said: “It is with great sadness that we have learnt of Prof Keorapetse Kgositsile’s passing. He was with us just the other day at Abantu Book Festival and his event - which was his last ever - was one of those the audience wished would never end. RIP National Poet Laureate. #NoSerenityHere.” @poetrypotionsaid: “Friends, we are saddened to inform you that our National Poet Laureate Prof Keorapetse Kgositsile has passed on. Prof Willie was a beautiful, humble soul. A giant to many. Poetry Potion wishes to extend our sincerest condolences to his friends and family. Rest in peace Prof” @VusiPikoli wrote: “Go well bra Willie Kgositsile, the big small giant of poetry! Gone but still with us! Hamba Kahle Mkhonto. Your voice fades not. The bigness of your heart testimony to your stature. Your words indelible.” @JacquiThePoet wrote:
“My soul is shook... A library
has burnt down today... a Baobab fell! The South African Poet Laureate has gone to the other side. Rest In Peace Ntate Keorapetse ‘Bra Willie’ Kgositsile. May we one day be worthy to carry on your baton...”