After a four-year break, BBC Worldwide in partnership with Rapid Blue, are bringing its popular local commission to its new home of BBC BRIT (DStv channel 120). The series takes people into the homes of some of the country's most extrovert and eccentric critics to see if they really have what it takes to be crowned the host with the most votes, and take home the R10000 cash prize. Voice-over legend Dave Lamb will continue his duties giving his wry observations as guests host each other in Pretoria, Johannesburg, Port Elizabeth and Cape Town. Episode one takes place in Pretoria and serves up a mix of riotous kitchen drama, outrageous guests and delicious entertainment. Fans of the show can prepare to meet pole dancing Carmi Van Heerden, hyper-critical Philipine Modimogale, amateur dramatic Ian Perryman and chatty Nonhlanhla Ntwasa. Joel Churcher, general manager and vice president, BBC Worldwide Africa said, “We are thrilled to be able to announce the return date of Come Dine With Me South Africa for a fourth series. Since announcing its return, viewers have blown us away with their excitement at seeing a new line up of the country’s best and worst dinner hosts step into the kitchen. I have seen a sneak peek of episode one and am confident that the new contestants will find their ways into the hearts of our viewers with the new episodes promising even more iconic moments and catchphrases such as “shut the front door” and “what the fudge”. Executive producer Kee-Leen Irvine of Rapid Blue said, “After all these years of producing international formats for a South African audience, I’m still constantly amazed at all the colourful and diverse personalities that our amazing country has to offer. This season of Come Dine With Me South Africa once again bring the proof to the pudding.” Come Dine With Me is produced in 34 countries including Germany, France and Australia, proving a returning staple for many international broadcasters. Come Dine With Me South Africa was the first local commission from BBC Worldwide for its channels in the EMEA region, and debuted in South Africa in 2011. The first three series have been huge ratings hits and in 2013 the programme won a Best International Format Show Award at the 7th annual SAFTAs.