The 19-year-old star has bagged himself a new position as Fanta SA's Teen Marketing Director. And with such rapid success, the internet vlogger known best as LaSizwe says it has taken time for him to reach this point.“It started way back when I asked my mother for a camera, for my social media videos,” he said. And now just two years later, LaSizwe has his own show on Touch HD and many other gigs secured as well. “I knew that this is the life I wanted from a young age and I was willing to work for it.” His new position will see him come up with creative content and also appear on Fanta adverts to reach and attract his peers, something he has had ample practice in with his social media video-skits. But reaching where he is today took a lot of work. Not wanting to use his sister's success to be where he is, LaSizwe chose to stay up late and wake up early to ensure he could achieve his goals. “Khanyi (Mbau) worked hard for what she has and where she is. "I wanted to do the same for myself so no one can turn around and take part in my shine,” he said, "I've worked hard." The death of his mother made progress a little more difficult than expected. “I was my mother's handbag. Everywhere she went, I went, and she was my biggest supporter. All of a sudden my mother was gone. It was hard,” he said, adding that the transition also made him stronger. From then, his motto became: “Don't let life determine your life, let your life determine life." “So many times people look at the conditions of life and accept it. But what about what you desire? Will you allow those to fizzle out? Work on those to create your desired life,” he said. The youngster has also rubbed shoulders with the most loved personalities in the industry, like Somizi Mhlongo. “My relationship with Somizi is a father-and-son relationship. I can call him and get advice, talk etc. I appreciate him so much. I thank God daily for him in my life”. He said his journey has been guarded by God, having placed all the necessary people in his life. “Now  I am only 19 and have so much more to offer. This new position doesn't mean I have stopped pushing for the better but it means an opportunity for more learning. There is so much in store, with music and just many other things I want to explore.” “Do not announce your plans, let your plans announce themselves,” he added.