Joburg mayor Herman Mashaba has put the MMC for Finance on suspension over allegations of undue influence and nepotism. In a statement this morning, Mashaba said the decision to suspend Dr Rabelani Dagada was taken during a DA Federal Executive meeting over the weekend. Not only has Dagada been removed as finance MMC he has also been suspended as a councillor pending an inquiry of the party’s legal commission. “At the time I immediately initiated a forensic investigation through an external company, which was concluded this Friday,” Mashaba said. The forensic investigation found that Dagada had breached the city’s code of conduct “by not declaring his interests and, subsequently, conflicts of interest with individuals closely associated with him”, Mashaba said. “Further to this, the forensic investigation has found Dagada to have been involved in price fixing with a service provider to the City and in the process acted against his sworn duty to our residents,” he said. “It is understood from the investigation that Dagada has acted in a manner which has sought, either directly or indirectly, to benefit service providers and officials closely associated with him. In this process a series of events have transpired that, in my view, could not have taken place coincidentally to the exclusive benefit of these associates," Mashaba said. Mashaba added that investigators had found “unforgivable element of the undue influence”, which relates unfair treatment of officials who were “pressured to authorise procurement deals to the benefit of those closely associated”. “I am proud to say that these officials stood firm in their convictions and refused to do what they knew was wrong,” he said. He said he took comfort knowing that the city had begun to achieve a professionalised civil service “when principled officials, acting in the interests of our residents, are defended and those alleged of wrongdoing are dealt with decisively”. The city has also initiated disciplinary action against the implicated officials. They will face disciplinary enquiries for their roles in the breaches of legislation and governance procedures, Mashaba said. He also said he would be laying a complaint with the ethics committee of the Council and criminal charges against Dagada while the disciplinary processes are underway. “I would like to express my gratitude to journalists for their exposing of this matter, and what this represents to the contribution of journalism to our Democracy. MMC Funzela Ngobeni, from Development Planning will replace Dagada. Ngobeni will be replaced by councillor Reuben Masango. The Star