City of Joburg mayor Herman Mashaba will open criminal charges against 31 officials who allegedly received a combined R2.7 million in kickbacks from a service provider. Mashaba said one of the employees from the department of Group Information Communication Technology and Information Management pocketed R1 million in one transaction while another received R685 000. “I received shocking news that 31 City officials allegedly received about R2.7 million in kickbacks from a single service provider registered on the City’s and Municipal Owned Entities (MOEs) database. “The service provider, who is based in the south of Johannesburg, provides office stationery such as desktop computers, laptops, printer cartridges and toners, just to name a few.  It is estimated that the service provider received business from the City worth over R20 million,” Mashaba said. He said a criminal case would also be opened against the service provider. He said in some instances an order for stationery was placed and paid for but the goods were not delivered. “It is alleged that the officials who are tasked with placing orders on behalf of their departments and MOEs colluded with the said service provider to inflate the quotations so that it includes their cut.  The service provider would then workout order value, cost excluding VAT, gross profit excluding VAT and the amount to be paid to the officials,” he said. Mashaba said the kickbacks were paid in the form of Shoprite money transfers, First National Bank eWallet payments, cash payments and transfers to individual accounts. He said each official had their preferred method of payment. “Officials who received a large chunk of the money are from the department of Group Information Communication Technology and Information Management.  One official allegedly received R1 million in just one transaction and their colleague allegedly received R685 000 in transactions for toners,” he said, adding that the other officials were from various departments, including Group Communication and Marketing, Department of Finance, Johannesburg Water, City Parks, Joburg Property Company, Johannesburg Roads Agency and Pikitup. “The information is contained in documents that were seized by the members of the Hawks last night working with officials from the City’s Group Forensic and Investigation Services (GFIS) Department and the Johannesburg Metropolitan Police Department (JMPD), after a raid was conducted at the offices of the service provider. “The service provider also conducts business with various departments from the Gauteng provincial government and other municipalities, where officials are paid a certain fee for giving the service provider business,” Mashaba said.  The Star 