Johannesburg - After a stellar career veteran actor Sandy Mokwena, popularly known as Bra Eddie, was fondly remembered as a man with “great talent.” On Wednesday, family, friends and colleagues paid tribute to Mokwena, at a public memorial, as a mentor, passionate father and an asset to the performing arts industry. The family asked all who loved Mokwena to celebrate their beloved #BraEddie’s life. Mokwena was an advocate for education and performing arts. Read more: SA veteran actor #SandyMokwena dies Well known actor Jerry Mofokeng said that Mokwena had made his ‘exit’ in theatrical terms. Mofokeng said the veteran actor was determined and performed until the 3000 episode of Scandal.       “He was a gift to us in the industry and globally,” said Mofokeng. Mokwena broke into the industry with the hit musical Iphi Intombi (Where is the girl?) and later played roles in Scandal, Generations, Soul City & Yizo Yizo. Fellow Iphi Intombi actor and friend Andy Chabedi said he had a brotherhood that lasted many years. An emotional Chabedi recalls being given a picture by Mokwena that read “You are my brother forever. From Sandy Mokwena to Andy Chabedi”. Chabedi told mourners that the last call he received from Mokwena was on the Sunday before he died. “He sent me a blank text. I didn’t understand it so I called him back. He told me his leg was failing him and that he couldn’t walk,” said Chabedi. Also read: #RIPBraEddie: Tributes pour in for fallen actor Sandy Mokwena Chabedi and his family did not think that his brother would not recover. “He was an asset to the arts world and we have lost a big talent,” Said Chabedi. Actress Thoko Ntshinga said: “Sandy was spoilt by his wife... USandy ubedelela (Sandy was naughty). “The acting gig on Scandal was thanks to his wife, Grace,” Said Ntshinga. Mokwena leaves behind his wife of 40 years Grace Mosima Mokwena, four children and six grandchildren. Veteran actors such as Nandi Nyembe, Mara Louw, Setlhabi “Bra Kop” Taunyane, Sello Maake Ka Ncube were among the few who paid their last respects to a “great talent and gentle giant” Representing the provincial government, MEC of Sports, Arts, Culture and Recreation Faith Mazibuko said Mokwena contributed immensely to the entertainment industry. Mazibuko said: “It is through you that we were able to achieve this freedom by the acting and singing about the injustices of the country.” “What we have realised is that most of you are no longer recognise... your cries we hear them and we are striving to do the best that you are recognized in the industry,” said Mokwena. Last Thursday, Mokwena aged 68, leaves a trail of memories for those who bore witness to his stellar stage, movie and TV career. Known best for his role as Eddie Khumalo on the e.tv’s daily soap Scandal and performed on the show for more than 13 years. Mokwena's funeral will take place on February, 2 at Grace Bible Church in Soweto. He will be laid to rest at Heroes Acre in West Park Cemetery. @Zwane_2li2ls The Star