This was announced at a media briefing held in Parktown on Thursday. Family member Lesetja Masekela said fans would be able to show their support at the various remembrance activities that would be taking place from today until next Thursday. Sal Masekela, Hugh’s son, said the week ahead would represent a time for everyone to say their final goodbyes. He said the events would be for the public to share their memories of Bra Hugh. The first event will be the Hugh Masekela Heritage Park - an audiovisual celebration of the trumpeter's life that will chronicle six decades of him as an artist and social activist. The temporary centre will be up at Zoo Lake until February 1. The celebration will use visuals, footage and audio to reflect on the legend’s life. At the Sankopano centre in Alexandra today from 1pm, the Heitada Alex! - Going Home commemoration will be held in honour of Masekela. “Alex is the home where my father's musical journey began. Friends, the artistic community and family will share their memories of him there,” Sal said. The final public tribute will be the Hugh Masekela memorial, a musical celebration of his life that will feature mainly artists he collaborated with. “We are going to have an incredible party on Sunday and if you don't come ready to dance and sing, then you probably shouldn't attend.” The celebration will take place at the University of Johannesburg's Soweto campus on Sunday from 12pm. “As far as the final funeral service for the family, relatives and close friends - that's going to be a private event and we will be announcing that at another time.” Sal said the amount of love that the family had received was breathtaking. He added that it was amazing to see how - in a world where news was disposable and it was always on to the next thing - tributes were continuing to pour in. Oncologist Dr Yastira Ramdas took care of Masekela until his last day. “I saw him until the end. He passed away with a condition known as metastatic prostate cancer. He was such a strong minded, full of life individual. “He really was a true inspiration to all cancer patients, he fought hard until the end. He had a very strong message to pass to the public and all men: don't ignore symptoms, if you find something, get tested and get treated. “Go well, my dear person, you will be  immensely missed,” said Ramdas.