The iconic hitmaker will be remembered as one of the best South African music producers and performers, and his imposing tombstone, which cost more than R450 000, reflects his status. Malinga was laid to rest at West Park Cemetery’s Heroes Acre in Joburg after hundreds of family members and friends paid their last respects at the Rhema Bible Church in Randburg. A life-size statue was made of the late music icon. Lebohang Khitsane, the founder and chief executive of Bataung Tombstones, told The Star that Malinga’s tombstone was designed and created after the family gave the go-ahead to make something exceptional. Khitsane said: “You see, it has got a piano to represent that he was an all-rounder in music and that he liked playing the piano. There is a round part that has got all his awards: the Metro FM Award, Clash of the Choirs and the Samas. “The round cage symbolises that he was an all-rounder in music and he was very fashionable, hence we made him wear his suit and shades. We had to duplicate his favourite shades. “The family just said ‘please create something out of this world’. The budget was not an issue. They said ‘just do something beautiful’ and we did it.   For something similar to this it would be anything between R450000 and R650000, depending on the extras. I can’t give the right figure but you will figure it out,” said Khitsane. “It’s a life-size statue, not ordinary,” he added.   In an emotional funeral service, Malinga’s son Robbie Malinga Jr said he planned to follow in his father’s footsteps. “This won’t be easy for me because my dad and I were too close. We were basically twins,” he said. “My dad was a good man. In his last days we would joke around all the time He understood that I was trying to follow in his footsteps. He  was quite the fashionista.  “He was a great man. My heart is really broken to see him lying there because it was too soon. He laid a foundation, and through that foundation I have to build on top of it. I have to do that for him and my sister.” Malinga Jr shares similar traits to his late father as he too has musical talent and a great sense of humour. Among the hundreds who were at Malinga’s funeral, were musicians from various genres. Musa Sukwene, one of the musicians who had the opportunity to work with Malinga, said burying his “brother” and mentor was one of the hardest things to do, especially at the beginning of a new year. “For me, I think since the passing of Robbie, everyone has been calling me. It’s still hard for me to comprehend and find peace of knowing that every time I have to go on stage now, I would still feel like he is going to come behind me and tap my shoulder,” said Sukwene. Malinga and Sukwene composed one of South Africa’s biggest hits, called Mthande. “Three years into our meeting, he said to me: ‘No, it’s not anyone who does collaborations with the great Robbie Malinga. You must wait.’ And I waited. By the time we did (collaborate), such beautiful magic came out of the work we were doing together,” said Sukwene. The 47-year-old music legend died on Christmas Day after a battle with pancreatic cancer.  @Zwane_2li2ls 