The heatwave, defined by forecaster Kgolofelo Mahlangu as conditions “when for three days the maximum temperature is five degrees higher than the mean maximum for the hottest month”, hit Gauteng, the Northern Cape, the Free State, North West, Limpopo and Mpumalanga from Saturday.  This prompted the South African Weather Service to issue a special advisory, warning people to limit their outdoor activities, drink a lot of water, limit consumption of alcohol and try to stay in cool, ventilated areas. Residents were yesterday urged to remain cautious as high temperatures were set to continue.  Mahlangu said no fatalities had been reported but children and elderly individuals could be at risk. “There is another special weather advisory for extremely hot conditions. These are temperatures above 40ºC. On Sunday in Gauteng the temperature was 37ºC for Pretoria, 34ºC for Joburg and 35ºC for Vereeniging,” said Mahlangu.  Meanwhile, ER24 spokesperson Werner Vermaak re-
ported that a three-year-old was left locked in car at a retail centre in Strubens Valley, Roodepoort while the parents were shopping on Saturday.  The child was rescued after an off-duty paramedic from ER24 passed the car and heard the child crying.  “He noticed that a window was partially open and managed to unlock the door.  "He called ER24 and the police. Management of the retail centre provided water for the little boy. The off-duty paramedic explained that the child and car were extremely hot and he was sweating heavily.  “Paramedics assessed the boy and monitored his vital signs before he was returned to the care of the parents,” said Vermaak.  “According to the parents, they left the boy in the car as he was sleeping at the time.”  As temperatures soared, South Africans took to Twitter.  @Aziweke said: “It seems natural disaster looms. We never experienced 38ºC in Gauteng and I suspect the geo engineers are planning to strike us with natural disaster so we will go back and lend money from IMF. I saw many chemtrails in October 2017. Nationalising SARB brings natural disaster.”  Ways to keep safe in hot conditions include: stay indoors, and keep well hydrated. If working outside, wear protective clothing and take regular breaks. Avoid strenuous sports.  @Zwane_2li2ls