January is the month when people make resolutions or plan to achieve their goals.
For two musicians who are on the rise, this year is all about making sure their full potential is realised. Molefi Madikoe, who goes by the stage name Mr Mo, has been enhancing his craft over the years and is ready to take his music to new heights. The music man loves all things creative and has dabbled in gospel music and dance, and continues to strengthen his song-writing skills. He comes from a musical background and says music is his passion. His first album, Destiny, was a hit with house music enthusiasts who enjoy up-tempo beats and lounge music over classic vocals. Hip hop DJ Infinix took up the career when she was just 18 years old. The Eastern Cape DJ, whose real name is Nomaxabiso Gomomo, is based in Joburg and is making waves in the male-dominated industry. She has already started getting her name in the limelight, performing at several big events around the country. This year she wants to focus on her vocal skills. The two musos spoke to The Star about their plans for the year:  MR MO 
THE STAR (TS): How did you enjoy the holidays?  Mr Mo (MM): It was mostly work, because i was performing week in week out, but it didn't feel like work, because I was doing what I love.  
TS: What are your plans for the year? 
MM: I just recently established a new independent record label with my business partner called Moon SA Records from which I will be releasing my music going forward. The plan is to also sign a few South African talented forces to be reckoned with onto the label and provide them with a solid home for their music.
 
TS: Are you working on any new music? 
 MM: Following my latest single "Wena Feela" with Shavi, I will release another single titled "We Know" on which I've worked on with producer Echo12Inch. It's a body of work I'm really proud of, leading towards the release of my upcoming second Album "PHOENIX" which I will release towards Easter time.
 
TS: What is the one thing you want to achieve for the year?  
MM: For my music to heard on a broader scale and just waving the SA flag on the world stage.  DJ INFINIX TS: How did you enjoy the holidays? 
DJ INFINIX (DI): I was working some days as it's a busy time for our industry and I also went home to the Eastern Cape to be with my family and spent some time at the beach. TS: What are your plans for the year? 
DI: This year I'm focusing on my singing career, not that my djing will take a step back but I'll  be pushing more of my own music. TS: Are you working on any new music? 
DI: Yes I'm currently in studio working on a couple of songs so I'll be releasing more singles following up on the first single I released in 2016. TS: What is the one thing you want to achieve for the year?  
DI: To grow my fan base and my music successfully reaching the masses around South Africa and abroad.