TWO female metro police officers were killed by a drunk driver while administering sobriety tests during a road block in Fourways. The man plunged into cars that had stopped on a road block, killing the officers and injuring seven other people. Metro police spokesperson Edna Mamonyane said that three vehicles that were hit were were a BMW, Porsche and a Hyundai. “We were busy testing the drivers for drinking and a Toyota double cab came driving fast and plunged into all the vehicles. The double cab driver was immediately drawn blood and it was discovered that he was drunk,” said Mamonyane. She was unable to confirm his name or age but was said the man was immediately detained at Sandton Police Station. The incident took place in Fourways on Witkoppen Road. Mamonyane confirmed that two other officers were slightly injured. The driver of the Hyundai and his two passengers were left seriously injured and have been hospitalised while the BMW and Porsche drivers sustained minor injuries. According to Mamonyane, drunk drivers often drive past road obstructions being manned by officers and even bump the cones used to demarcate the road. She also said that alcohol was not an excuse to injure people because technology had improved lives. “They drive off as fast as they can and sometimes manage to get away but in this instance  our own was killed. People don’t have to drink and drive. It is easy - they can call an Uber or call a cab," she said. . Chief of Johannesburg Metropolitan Police Department (JMPD) David Tembe said he was saddened by the incident and that it was unfair that police officers who were trying to protect citizens ended up being killed by drunk drivers. “Their lives would not be taken in vain and we will continue doing our jobs,” said Tembe. In November 2017, a metro police officer was killed by a drunk driver during roadside check operations in Soweto when the driver lost control of his vehicle crashing  into another vehicle. In May 2016 a metro police officer died in the early hours when he was run over by an alleged drunk driver along the N1 in Midrand. The Star