Mahlangu said what happened when the patients were moved from Life Esidimeni to poorly equipped NGOs was regrettable. Mahlangu on Thursday told the Life Esidimeni alternative dispute resolution hearings that she wanted forgiveness for her “political role” in the project. “I apologise to the family members. I may not understand what they went through but I hope what the government is doing will help them finally get closure.” Mahlangu said the deaths of the 143 psychiatric patients indicated that the government let down the most vulnerable people. “I feel that we let down the most vulnerable and for that I apologise.” As she started with her apology, some members of the families walked out of the arbitration venue. Read: Ex-MEC feels her character is being attacked at #LifeEsidimeni hearing She still refused to take personal responsibility and says she only accepted political blame. Before apologising, the defensive Mahlangu claimed the arbitration had an agenda against her. She said: “I am getting an impression that I am here in the arbitration to present and it is more about my character than anything else. If this is my character then I should have a lawyer. I am getting uncomfortable.” In her closing statement, Mahlangu said once the arbitration process was complete, she would  decide what to do about the findings into her conduct of Health Ombudsman Professor Malegapuru Makgoba. She has indicated that she does not agree with the report. Mahlangu had a hard day of butting heads with the legal representatives. In the morning she argued strongly with Legal Aid SA advocate Lilla Crouse and later in the afternoon Solidarity’s advocate Dirk Groenewald. Head of the arbitration, retired judge Dikgang Moseneke, had to intervene several times. Read more: Ex-MEC denies seeing letters, emails warning against closing Esidimeni Family members also heckled her a few times but Moseneke also lost his patience with her evasion of questions. She protested at being told to give yes or no responses to questions. “The record will be printed and it will show how much liberty you have been given,” Moseneke said after she again claimed not to remember facts. In verbal sparring with Crouse, Mahlangu said: “I am not a prophet. Now I know that the human rights of patients were violated but it was not intentional, and that’s important. If I were a prophet I would have had the foresight” She then admitted that the psychiatric patients' human rights had been violated but still refused to take personal responsibility. Mahlangu admitted she took three months off work in 2016 to help with the ANC campaign ahead of the local government elections. She said at the time that Barney Selebano, the suspended head of the Gauteng Health Department, should have been running the project. Mahlangu said  political campaigning was part of her duties. She also denied approaching Levy Mosenogi to head the project. Mosenogi had testified that although appointed by Selebano, he had been approached by Mahlangu to lead the project. Former head of mental health Dr Makgabo Manamela also testified that when she was reluctant to implement the project, Mahlangu removed her and appointed Mosenogi. But Mahlangu said they were all lying. When Moseneke asked why were they all lying, she said it was baffling. The hearing continues on Friday. @TebogoMonama The Star