“I have pictures of when I was three or five years old and I’m holding a baby from an Aids orphanage,” he told The Star. “My mom has an NGO. From a very young age, by the time I was born basically, my whole life has revolved around community service and helping people, getting out there into the broader community. “It has always been a part of me because of my mom and the influence she has had on me. It wasn’t strange if I was going to rural South Africa at the age of 11 with my mom and a group of physiotherapists to help severely brain-damaged children. “I really began to love it and enjoy all the opportunities.” He is one of the matriculants at King David High School Linksfield who was expected to score many distinctions, and he did. He managed to get seven distinctions, in accounting, Afrikaans, English, geography, Hebrew, life orientation and maths. Owing to his civil involvement, Shane leaves an indelible mark at the school - where he was head boy in his matric year. He also held the position at the school in Grade 7. He led the #Mad4Pads, a drive where youngsters collected sanitary pads in schools and shopping centres.  “I also got the Jewish nursery schools in my area to collect pads and to donate them. That was great,” he recalled.  At an event held at the Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy in Meyerton in 2016, Shane won the Gold President’s Award for teaching English to exiled Tibetan monks in India.  He was also ambassador chief executive of the SleepOut campaign. What drives his passion about civil service? “It’s only when you’re working with people from all walks of life that you can see that we’re all unique and yet we’re all the same. We all just want happiness, love and to be a part of something,” he answered. Shane, who lost his father when he was in Grade 8, had to juggle his matric year with studies, head boy duties and civil work. “The hard part was finding a way to make everything work,” he said.  “It has been fun and stressful, everything all in once. My matric was kind of unique.” Shane received a bursary to study accounting and will be headed to the University of Pretoria soon. “The reason I’m doing accounting is because I absolutely love maths and accounting.” But he added: “I don’t see myself as an accountant for the rest of my life. I’m doing it because right now it’s the best thing for me.”