Despite failing numerous times, she did not give up on getting her matric.  The problems started when Mokhine, 21, was in Grade 9 and her mother went to train as a sangoma. Her father had died in 1999 and this meant the responsibility of caring for her then two-year-old brother lay on her when her mother responded to her sangoma calling and went away. “I had to take care of my brother and that was hard for me. I had to make sure that he had everything that he needed. All that was so stressful for me,” said the Westridge High School pupil.  Karabo said other than the pressure of caring for her sibling, she also had to worry about making their social grant money stretch.  “I became a mother to him. I also had to divide the Sassa money between me and him and still send some to my mother.”  As a result of all this, she failed Grade 9.  Karabo repeated the grade and moved to Grade 10. Since her mother was still not back, Karabo struggled to balance her school work and taking care of the household and again failed.  “When I was doing Grade 10 the second time, my mother came back and I was at least able to pass and move to Grade 11. Since Grade 11 is hard, I failed. I told myself I will give it my last shot and after the second time I passed,” Karabo said. At the time, she said, her family tried to convince her to go finish her high school at a further education and training college.  “I refused because that never crossed my mind. I didn't want to give up on getting matric. I wanted to finish at a high school,” she said.  After spending eight years in high school, Karabo has finally bid goodbye to it after passing her matric. Karabo said it was thanks to the help of supportive teachers at Westridge that she never gave up.  “They were very supportive and told me that it didn't matter when I finished matric as long as I did it.  “They told me never to give up.” Her advice to other learners who are struggling with their studies is: “Never give up on life. Ignore what people say. Just concentrate on your dreams.” She hopes to be an air hostess because “I love travelling and seeing new places.” Candidates who are not happy with their marks, can apply for a remark or recheck by January 19 and register at either their school or district office in their province. It costs R92 for a remark or R21 for a recheck.  Viewing scripts may only be done after a remark or recheck. The closing date for applications to view your paper is 7 days after the release of the remark or recheck and costs R180. Candidates who marginally missed passing, can apply for supplementary exams at the department of education's district offices.