“Salons are so traumatic for children. My sister's daughter couldn't find a salon that was child friendly, one that didn't use hair dryers and heat and terrible chemicals.” Modise said in most salons, parents weren't advised properly on how to treat their children's hair, so they would often walk into a salon with children as young as two-years-old to relax their hair or plait it while it is still fragile. “That frustrates the child's scalp. It's important to educate parents and people on ethnic hair about how to best treat it, help it grow and manage it.”  Modise said a lot of the time parents do whatever they want to their children's hair without thinking about the long-term effects. “It's only after the children have grown up that they realise what type of hair they have and how they want to treat it.” Modise said the concept and values of the Maddy Magoo franchise resonated with her and she bought into it. Her salon is based at the Kids Emporium in Fourways. “Parents are desperate to find a place where their children can be free. Where the hairstylists actually have patience for the child and genuinely care. The problem we still have now is that hairdressers will still do what the client wants even when they see the client's hairline has receded.” The Maddy Magoo salon is open to all types of hair. “I think the one thing people assume is that hair is very strong, it is not. It is sensitive and needs to be treated correctly. With young children it's important to allow their hair to grow naturally without pulling at it continuously.” She said hairstylists had to understand the different curl patterns on hair to know how best to treat it.  “Straight hair cuticles are more closed. With ethnic hair it coils and has more propensity to lose moisture.” “Parents should not plait hair that puts pressure to the follicles in front, or stress hair and scalp. Breaking hair and dandruff comes from those chemicals.” She stressed that using adult products on children added to the hair woes. “Their scalp and texture is different.” For people who continue to mix products and read up on different products without thoroughly looking into them, Modise said: “Knowledge is power. Don't cocktail your products because it is damaging to your hair. "Using things like castor oil to lock in moisture only works if you know the concentration. Otherwise, it blocks your cuticles. Coconut oil breaks other people's hair. We use these things, but don't know if they are really for our hair.” Modise offers free consultations to clients who walk into her salon in order to help them understand their hair better. “There are eight different curl types. There are different combs to use for the hair types. "Don't be quick to change the products you are using. The best time to see if they are working is over a long period of time.” Modise said hair is not like skin and it takes at least a month to start seeing the difference in texture. “The journey to healthy hair requires you to maintain your hair by going to a proper salon for help, allowing your natural hair to grow out, giving it time to breathe. Always hydrate your hair and read the labels on products. Make sure the products you use have protein. Too much keratin breaks your hair. Avoid using oils that clog your follicles.”  The best way to achieve this is through a blanket approach, said Modise. “For children (and adults) it's better to plait their hair while damp, understanding what heat actually does to the hair. Even when detangling hair, there are products made especially for this process. People just need education to have great hair.” Vusi Khumalo has been in the hair industry for over 20 years. A hair session with him includes a conversation on how you have been treating your hair followed by an intense therapy session for the hair. “Before you detangle you have to hydrate the hair. A deep conditioner and water is your best bet. Here we wash and do a co-wash (conditioner and shampoo) then a deep conditioning head massage to get the blood flowing to the hair to stimulate the follicles. After hydrating the hair we then do your desired hairstyle.” Khumalo said the healthy hair trend on social media is good, but people must try to make sure they first understand their hair before diving in to every and any product. “We have sat down with suppliers and gone through products and tested them out. Everyone's hair is different and needs to be treated that way.”