The Redhill School pupil scooped 11 distinctions in the Independent Examination Board matric exams. He achieved distinctions in English, French, History, life orientation, life sciences, maths, music, physical science, Spanish, TCL practical and AP mathematical.  Throughout his high school career, the 16-year-old has been serious about academics and his music.  Born in France, he was able to master everything from the piano, which he started in Grade 3 while living in Qatar, to the trombone which he started in Grade 6 when he moved to Kuwait with his family.  “I play tenor trombone and piano as individual instruments at Grade 8 level, and in group ensembles, such as the Redhill Jazz Band and the Chamber Orchestra, I play trombone,” he said, adding that he doesn’t have a favourite instrument.  “The two are very different, with different styles, techniques and music. I enjoy both of them, for every musical aspect that they offer.” His membership of the Redhill Jazz Band since 2014 has been “a fantastic way to get out of a working mindset and relax from the pressures of matric. It has been such a privilege to be part of it,” he says. He moved to South Africa and started schooling at Redhill in September 2014. Since then, he's taken first place in the brass category of the Roedean 2016 Music Competition; won the best contemporary band award in the National Eisteddfod Academy with the Redhill Jazz Band in 2016 and 2017; and was selected for the Rand Symphony Orchestra 2017 Youth Concert. In his matric year, Ambroise juggled music, academics and managed to come first in an Olympiad. “I came first in the 2017 national life sciences Olympiad and was invited to represent South Africa at the 2017 London International Youth Science forum. I was also selected to be part of the Gauteng team in the 2017 Inter-provincial Mathematics Challenge.”  In between all that, he managed to be a scout and a member of Redhill’s 2017 Public Speaking Prepared Team. How did he manage to juggle his studies, music and extracurricular activities? Ambroise said: “Time management. Without this I would never have managed to do all I did during my four years at Redhill. Time management enabled me to study 12 subjects, be involved in the school’s cultural department, while also studying for my French baccalaureate.” Proficient in French, English and Spanish, Ambroise will do his A-levels at St John’s College this year after which he will study for his final exams for his French baccalaureate.  “I will then go to university, probably in France or the UK. I’d like to study sciences, but I'm not sure which field yet. I’m leaning towards physics and maths, but I’m also very interested in chemistry and biology. Ideally, I would also like to keep music as an option, possibly by doing a minor degree.” He credits his parents as being influential in his success. “My parents have had a significant influence on my achievements. My family have been very encouraging and pushed me to do the best that I could. I am really grateful to have such supportive parents and siblings,” Ambroise said.  Proud executive head of Redhill School, Joseph Gerassi, said: “As Ambroise heads off to what we believe will be a great future, we wish him everything of the best. We are proud of the young men and women who carry Redhill with them into their future careers and hope they will always reach for what makes them happy.” 