About 2400 bodies have been lying in Gauteng mortuaries for over a year without anyone coming forward to claim them. The 2366 unidentified and unclaimed bodies have been in different mortuaries in the province since March last year. Gauteng Health MEC Gwen Ramokgopa revealed this in a written reply to the DA's Jack Bloom at the Legislature. Ramokgopa said from April 2017 to October 2018, there were 2287 unidentified bodies and 79 unclaimed ones. Bloom said he was concerned by the that high number. "This is 8.5% of the total number of 27 737 bodies stored in the mortuaries over this period. According to Ramokgopa, the three major causes of unnatural deaths that require a postmortem in state mortuaries are shootings, motor vehicle accidents and stab wounds. "It is tragic that many families don't know the fate of their loved ones because they have been buried anonymously after suffering a violent death. "I suspect that some of the 21 missing Life Esidimeni patients suffered this fate because they died and were not identified at a mortuary," he said. Bloom said there should be an internet site with controlled access so that people can try and identify those who have gone missing and were suspected to be dead. Most of all, he said, effective action needs to be taken to decrease the high number of violent deaths in Gauteng. "This requires a professional police force with adequate resources to combat the intolerable level of crime in our province," Bloom said. While the bodies have been lying in the mortuary for over a year, a body is usually left unidentified and unclaimed at the mortuary for only 30 days before it is given a pauper's funeral. According to the Acting CEO of the Gauteng Forensic Pathology Services, when a body arrives at the mortuary, the next of kin is given 30 days to identify and claim it before it's given a pauper's burial. Dr Mosou Morule said sometimes the process is quick where families come, identity their next of kin and take it with to bury. In some cases, however, the deceased is a foreign national and relatives back home don't know that he or she is dead and lying in a mortuary unidentified. He said the other challenge was that in some instances, the next of kin will come, positively identify the body but due to financial constraints not able to transport it back home for a burial. "So we will have identified unclaimed bodies and unidentified unclaimed bodies. If 30 days have passed, we then start the process of a pauper's funeral because due to costs, bodies can't stay in the government storage forever. "The municipality is the one that is responsible for burying the bodies. There are undertakes who have a contract with the municipality," he said. Morule said they keep records of the deceased and if families later approach the mortuary and positively identifies a body that was buried, it will be exhumed and handed to them. 