The South African Emergency Personnel’s Union (SAEPU)  is considering sending it's members for firearm training and providing them with guns  to protect themselves from attacks. As it is, the union said, some of their members are already carrying firearms to protect themselves from attackers who see them as easy targets. According to the union's Mpho Mpogeng, some paramedics in parts of Gauteng, the Eastern and Western Cape already go to work armed. Mpogeng said they as the union have called for their members who have legal firearms to carry them while on duty as a response to continued attacks on them. In the past six months only, he said, there have been 36 attacks on paramedics all over the country. He said the latest attack was in Port Elizabeth in the Eastern Cape where a pregnant woman as well as a paramedic where robbed in an ambulance. Asked whether carrying guns might not make paramedics even more vulnerable to more attacks from people who want their guns, Mpogeng disagreed. "That might minimise the attacks as people will know they have guns. At the end of the day it's these young nyaope boys who happen to have guns who attack them." Mpogeng also said a month ago someone called an ambulance in Mabopane then later turned on the paramedics, robbing them at gunpoint. "When this guy called, he created a story about a pregnant woman and an ambulance was dispatched. When paramedics got there, the person robbed them at gunpoint. "We are also busy brainstorming how it will be if our members are taken for firearm training and later given guns. It's something we are still thinking about as we get reports every week that our members are attacked, hijacked and killed. However, the Emergency Care Board, under the ambit of the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) said it was disturbed by SAEPU's call and distanced itself from it. They Board said the carrying of firearms by the practitioners while on duty would negatively impact on the image of the profession. Lesiba Arnold Malotana, who is the Chairperson of the Board, said the safety of emergency care practitioners has been in the spotlight and was of grave concern for them. "Emergency care practitioners put their lives at risk every day to provide a service to communities. It is therefore unacceptable and should be condemned in the strongest possible terms that they become victims of such reported rampant attacks. This matter is receiving the necessary attention by all key stakeholders. "The carrying of firearms by emergency care practitioners will not only result in a negative impact on the profession but will create confusion and an expectation in the communities that emergency care practitioners have an obligation to also act as peace keeping or law enforcement agencies while on duty. "Apart from confusing the public, emergency care practitioners themselves may become conflicted as to their role and actions they need to take in crime and unrest situation Practitioners carrying firearms may therefore instill fear and confusion to patients being treated. “If practitioners are allowed to carry firearms, this may have unintended consequences and will further expose practitioners and increase their chances of being victims of crime," Malotana said. Mpogeng, however, said they were not apologetic about their call and were instead saddened by the HPCSA's stance on this. "They never condemn the attacks on paramedics but when we say enough is enough they come and condemn us. They never issue statements when paramedics are attacked," he said. 