This comes after the ANC national working committee (NWC) wrote a letter to the Gauteng provincial executive committee (PEC) recommending that former health MECs Qedani Mahlangu, who was implicated in the tragedy that claimed the lives of 144 people, and her predecessor Brian Hlongwa should resign from the structure. Mahlangu and Hlongwa raised eyebrows when they were elected to the PEC in July. “We had actually thought we were never going to hear anything about this. This is the first stage of accountability,” Life Esidimeni Families Committee spokesperson Christine Nxumalo said. “We welcome the move. Now we are going to wait for the criminal charges. We are going to go step by step with this process until justice is done. We are not going to give up on this process,” Nxumalo said. The ANC in Gauteng said it would not comment on the matter because it had not yet received the NWC’s letter. “I’m unable to comment because it has not come to the PEC. However, there is a PEC meeting this afternoon. “I have just seen the letter that is out in the public, but officially we haven’t received anything,” ANC Gauteng spokesperson Tasneem Motara said. A letter addressed to Mahlangu, which The Star has seen, states in part: “Please note that while the PEC had decided that you should remain a member of the PEC, the NWC has decided that you step down... “Thus, based on the information set out herein above, it is hereby requested that you kindly step down from participating in the Gauteng provincial executive committee with immediate effect. “This request does not affect your membership of the ANC.” Mahlangu has been blamed for the deaths of the Esidimeni patients after she implemented the marathon project. More than 1400 others survived, while several are still unaccounted for. The patients died after they were removed from Life Esidimeni and transferred to ill-equipped and un- licensed facilities. They died of hunger, dehydration and negligence. Hlongwa was fingered by the Special Investigating Unit, which implicated the former ANC chief whip in the Gauteng legislature in R1.2billion of corrupt activities when he was health MEC from 2006 to 2009. He resigned as chief whip in October. The DA said it welcomed the ANC’s “belated decision” that Mahlangu must step down. “It reflects poorly on the failing ANC in Gauteng which wanted to retain her on the PEC but has now been overruled by the ANC’s NWC. “It is also disgraceful that ANC members voted her onto the PEC despite her responsibility for the deaths of 144 mental health patients in the Life Esidimeni tragedy,” DA Gauteng health spokesperson Jack Bloom said. “Mahlangu should be charged for her leading role in the Life Esidimeni deaths. “People are sick and tired of protection for ANC comrades. There needs to be real accountability so that the Life Esidimeni culprits are convicted in court with long prison sentences,” Bloom said.