The lifestyles of student on campus also involve social gatherings at clubs, private gatherings at student residences and relationships, which potentially leads to sexual harassment, prejudices and hyper-masculinity. A student at UCT, Emily Shay organised a protest march in October at the Jammie Plaza in support of victims of sexual violence. “I am exposed almost daily to certain ideologies on campus that form a part of rape culture and that lead to sexual assault and rape. I believe there is so much shame in this country that surrounds rape and sexual assault on the part of women. Men are so quick to victimise themselves and women often would rather stay silent, so that no trouble is caused,” said Shay. Shay said that young women always have to carefully consider their outfits when going out, as the fewer clothes they are wearing, the higher the risk of them being a victim of sexual harassment. “If every woman came out and spoke about her experiences perhaps policies would shift so that they protected us. It is really hard to put my experience in a category. "Regardless of the definitions of rape or sexual assault in our country, if you cannot see for yourself that what happened to you was sexual violence, no legal definition will help you realise it. I blame myself for getting into a situation where I could have been in danger like that and I never talk about it because I think it may seem trivial in comparison to others’ experiences. "But the truth is, yes, I have been sexually assaulted and it is really hard to talk about it, even as a loud, angry feminist.” UCT is aware of sexual harassment on campus and has policies in place to help render the problem of sexual violence. The campus has structured institutional services and established a development monitoring body, known as the Sexual Assault Response Team (Sart). They are a team of individuals who work together to address the issues of rape, sexual assault and gender discrimination. The Office for Inclusivity and Change provides institutional programmes for gender-based violence prevention and sexual assault case management. There is a sexual harassment and sexual offences policy on the campus in which students can refer to if they ever feel they were a victim to any type of sexual harassment. The Student Wellness Service also provides psychological support for student survivors and human resources provides trauma support and psychological services to staff survivors. Cape Peninsula University of Technology provides assistance to their students through CPUT’s Gender-Based Violence Position Statement. All the staff and students are issued with an emergency response guideline in the event of any type of sexual harassment or sexual offences happening on campus. CPUT provides a holistic response to any sexual violence incidents on campus where legal services, student affairs, student counselling and the HIV/Aids unit are incorporated. The gender-based violence task team at CPUT also meets with stakeholders such as the National Prosecuting Authority and NGO’s that deal with gender-based violence to help guide and update procedures. How to show your support: * Take the pledge against sexual harassment * Join and like Be The Change Mzansi on Facebook. * Follow the Don't Look Away campaign on IOL * Follow us on the Facebook pages of Daily News, Cape Argus and The Star.