A killer mother has escaped the prospect of being sentenced and jailed before Christmas. Zikhona Mndela, a young mother found guilty of killing her newborn baby girl, learnt at the high court in Joburg on Thursday that she would remain outside until February. Judge Ratha Mokgoatlheng postponed sentencing proceedings because a probation officer’s report was not ready. The report was required to determine if there were extenuating circumstances that should mitigate or aggravate a sentence meted out to a guilty person. It is read to court as part of sentencing proceedings. Advocate Sindisa Hlazo, Mndela’s lawyer, told Judge Mokgoatlheng that the probation officer informed him that the report was not ready. He said the officer also informed him that she would be going on leave soon, and would only manage to finalise the report earlier next year. The State was not opposed to having the sentencing proceedings postponed, prosecutor Jacqueline Drotsky told court. Judge Mokgoatlheng postponed the sentencing proceedings to February 11. The judge also extended Mndela’s free bail. Mndela, from Tembisa, may learn on that day or shortly thereafter the number of years she will spend in prison. Mndela was on November 7 found guilty of murder and concealment of death after wrapping her newborn babygirl in plastic and a jacket before putting her in a 20 litre tin of paint. The judge had found that Mndela had not been "frank with the court” in the different versions she presented. In her version, after a night out with friends, she felt unwell. She suspected she had a stomach ache and when she went to the toilet nothing came out. After squatting and pushing for a while, the baby fell on the floor. The baby did not move or cry and she cradled it in the jacket. She claimed she put the baby girl in a tin of paint because she realised there was commotion outside and didn’t want people to take videos of the scene and put it on social media. However, Judge Mokgoatlheng had disputed that saying: “This court rejects that the baby was born dead. It can’t be true because we have scientific evidence that the respiratory system was triggered when the baby was born." “If the baby was born dead why wrap it in plastic and a jacket? This was done with the intention of murdering this baby. Everyone knows that if you wrap a baby in plastic it can’t breathe. Putting it in a bucket of paint and closing it also means the baby cannot breathe."