Members of the Lephalale Unemployment Forum (LUF) have camped at Luthuli House and vowed not to leave if Lephalale Mayor Jack Moloko Maeko doesn’t step down. The LUF members, who travelled all the way from Limpopo, slept outside the ANC headquarters in the Joburg CBD on Tuesday after arriving in the afternoon. They said this forms part of their long call for the ANC to end corruption in Lephalale. Ngakamone Seanego from the LUF said she fled her home leaving her kids behind with her mother after police allegedly tried to shoot her.     Members of the Lephalale Unemployment Forum slept outside #ANC Headquarters, #LuthuliHouse. They are demanding Lephalale Mayor Jack Moloko Maeko to step down. Ngakamone Seanego says “He is corrupt. They sent police to shoot us. We are running away from them.” @ReporterStar pic.twitter.com/MzpMyhD2j5 “I have been running since last week Thursday. As you can see, all of us are dirty because we have been wearing the same clothes and we haven’t had a bath. “Our demands are clear, we want the Lephalale Mayor to step down. He must go because he is corrupt. We planned a march against corruption and he sent his police to come and shoot us. Most of us decided to run away and come here to ask our national leaders to intervene,” she said. Seanego said she missed her two children and all she wanted was assurance that nothing will happen to them and that they will get jobs when they grow up.     Watch: Ngakamone Seanego from the Lephalale Unemployment Forum slept outside #ANC #LuthuliHouse. They want Lephalale Mayor Jack Moloko Maeko to step down. pic.twitter.com/XLlidjUm0T Another member of the LUF, Sello Moselane, said the ANC national leadership must contact the mayor and tell him to step down. “That man must go. There is a lot of maladministration. We want him to go. The police are working with him hence they shoot us,” Moselane said. A representative from the office of the ANC Deputy Secretary General, Babylon Xeketwana said he was in contact with the Limpopo leadership. He said LUF members shouldn’t worry about their safety “because nothing will happen” to them. He also told them to feel free when demonstrating outside the party’s headquarters. @SthembisoSithole The Star