The village, which will ultimately have 530 units, caters for lower- to middle-income earners and was officially launched on Monday by Africrest Properties and the City of Joburg. So far, the first phase has been opened with 240 units. Ncube says he is delighted with his new unit, for which he pays only R6 000 a month. “I was living in a cottage in the area, paying a lot more, and the area is not safe. I commute between the Sandton and Joburg courts. Now I have found a perfect place, with reasonable rent, security and close to all amenities and freeways,” he said. Grant Friedman and Greg Blend, representing the developers, said at the launch of the development that the City of Joburg had given them its full support. The 30000m2 piece of land lay derelict for years after Rand Aid closed the old-age home which had been run from there. The project is set to uplift the area. The developers said: “The property was derelict, overrun by grass, bush and rats the size of cats running around. We transformed some of the existing buildings into inclusionary housing for lower-income residents, in terms of the city’s new inclusionary housing policy. “Our rental apartments, whose finishes and facilities mirror those of Sandton luxury apartments at a fraction of the price, are only two kilometres away from Melrose Arch and 800m from the Louis Botha Avenue Rea Vaya bus station.” This will be one of the largest mixed-use residential and school developments located along the corridors of freedom, they said. Reuben Masango, the city’s mayoral committee member for development planning, welcomed the development, adding that with some 3000 people coming to the city every month, there was a critical shortage of housing. “We are happy to have assisted with the development, including its planning,” he said. The new village is in line with densification in areas around the new Rea Vaya bus route which runs from Parktown to Alexandra and Sandton, down Louis Botha Avenue. The Bramley Spark school is next door to the development.