This follows Thursday's conviction in the high court in Joburg of Maryke*, Daniel’s mother, on two counts of child neglect, which Acting Judge Collin Matshitse asserted “caused the death of her son”. A high-ranking National Prosecuting Authority official said although there was no minimum prescribed sentence for child neglect, the maximum the mother can get would be 20 years, which the State would be fighting for. Maryke’s former lover, Timothy*, who was Daniel’s stepfather, was found guilty of child abuse and murder for his heinous and systemic torture of the little boy, which culminated in the boy's death. The stepfather submerged him in boiling-hot water and caused “excruciating” 60% body burns. The pair repeatedly broke down in tears inside the court while the judge was reading the verdict. They have two biological children together aged two and three, who are now subject to a Children’s Court application by the maternal and paternal grandmothers of the minors. Maryke’s other son from another relationship is with his biological family. The maternal grandmother wants custody, while the paternal one is asking for visitation rights. However, Women and Men Against Child Abuse child safety advocate Luke Lamprecht said his rights organisation had approached the Human Rights Commission (HRC) to intervene and allow the group to have standing in court to oppose the grandmothers’ applications. Lamprecht contended that while his organisation believed that minors should be with their families in line with provisions of the Children’s Act, he said the grandparents raised “child abusers and murderers” and did not prevent Daniel from being grotesquely tortured. “In simple terms, the question is whether it makes logical sense in what I call 'the myth of being a granny'; because these are old women, can they care adequately for children?” asked Lamprecht. He added that social workers were also complicit in Daniel’s death as, according to court evidence, they had ruled out abuse after the boy suffered a slew of debilitating fractures and bruises throughout his body. These social workers, Lamprecht said, should not be involved in the Children’s Court application. Daniel, according to a pathology report, suffered a spine-chilling death, including 15 separate blunt-force injuries, ranging from moderate-to-large force, many of which occurred 24 to 48 hours before he burnt to death. “A 60% surface-area burn would result in significant loss of fluids. The pain experienced in sustaining such wounds would be catastrophic,” said the report. * Not their real names