The UCL-Lancet "Commission on Migration and Health: the health of a world on the move" instead shows how stereotypes against migrants sometimes lead to unfair policies in host countries while ignoring migrants' contributions to economies. Recently, Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi received a backlash from Deputy Public Protector Kevin Malunga after he claimed that migrants were a strain on the country's healthcare system. The commission published earlier this month is a result of two years of study across the world and has refuted claims that migrants are disease carriers and that they are a burden to the healthcare systems of host countries. One of the contributors to the research is Wits University Professor Steve Tollman, director and co-founder of the MRC/Wits Agincourt Unit. He contributed to a research paper on global mortality in international migrants. One of the findings is that: “Contrary to the negative representation of migrants in the media as a burden to health systems, our research provides substantial evidence in support of the mortality advantage of migrants compared with the general population in high-income countries. “These results therefore challenge misconceptions and policies that do injustice to migrants, representing them as a risk and burden to health systems and society, and instead highlight positive contributions of migration in these countries.” The commission concludes that international migrants in high-income countries have lower rates of mortality compared to general populations across the majority of disease categories. The study used mortality estimates on more than 15.2million migrants from 92 countries and found that international migrants had lower rates of deaths for cardiovascular, digestive, endocrine, nervous and respiratory diseases, mental disorders and injuries than people in the general population in the receiving country. The only two exceptions were for viral hepatitis, TB, HIV, and external causes such as assault, where migrants had increased rates of mortality. There was no evidence on whether migrants are disease carriers. The commission concludes that “linking health status to migration enforcement also reinforces distrust in the health profession, and limits migrants' ability to access healthcare on a non-discriminatory basis”. Tollman said: “In the South African context, we have a massive gap in understanding internal migration. There are profound data gaps in an area where opinion, perception and political advantage tend to take pre- cedence.” He said through the Lancet process, “we seek to bring data and evidence to bear, to both counter prevailing myths and highlight the need to strengthen our understanding - which, in the South African and regional arena, relates directly to internal, often labour, migrants.” Tollman said it was important for how labour migrants access good public healthcare wherever they are. “We want to take care of our citizens but... we want to take care of others who cared for us pre-1990s. Resources are finite but the answer is simply not to reject those who are not ‘us’,” he said.