This was the contention made on Monday by advocate Lumka Qoqo, defence lawyer for Johannes Molefe - a former guard at AB Xuma Primary School, who is on trial on three rape counts and 11 of sexual assault, which were allegedly committed last year on 13 complainants aged between five and 13 at the time. Judge Peet Johnson said he would deliver his judgment on Wednesday. Qoqo, who was delivering her closing arguments at the South Gauteng High Court sitting at the Palm Ridge Magistrate’s Court, said the State failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Molefe had carried out the alleged egregious crimes, which included inserting his finger in the vaginas of three girls and inappropriately touching other children's bodies. Qoqo pointed to the fact that all the supposed crimes were committed during the day on the school's premises when there were many witnesses around. “How possible is it that these (alleged sexual violations) would happen in front of people?” Qoqo asked. She added that school staff who were called to testify, including teacher Queen Mthembu and the principal Maria Mthimkhulu, had said “it was impossible for these children to be touched” during school hours and not be noticed by people. “Mthimkhulu also said there were cameras which were working and she was monitoring them,” Qoqo said. Asked by Judge Johnson whether it was possible for the principal to have monitored the cameras at all times, Qoqo said: “There were too many of them (alleged crimes) for her (Mthimkhulu) to have missed it.” Qoqo added that most of the girls had contradicted themselves on the stand when compared to the statements they gave to police last year. She contended this was a sign of coaching. The lawyer reasoned that the children “were caught up in a feud between adults and the principal”, who, Qoqo said, was not wanted by a faction of teachers and the school governing body that apparently resented Mthimkhulu and wanted the old headmaster to return. But prosecutor Jackie Steyn hit back and read from case law which, she said, proved that initial statements to police should not be the main determinant in a criminal matter. “The purpose of the statement is for the police to investigate and whether or not the case should be prosecuted,” Steyn charged. Molefe has pleaded not guilty to all charges and will remain in custody until tomorrow's judgment. @khayakoko88