The park's K9 centre manager, Johan de Beer, said that since the beginning of the year they had found more than 1600 snares, some of which were removed far too late for the animals to be saved. De Beer said some of the animals were cut into pieces and sold as meat while others, such as hyenas and lions, were sold to sangomas and traditional healers for muti. Birds and fish were also targeted. “The snare is tied to a tree to ensure that once caught, the animal cannot escape. Once an animal is caught by the neck it will most probably die if it cannot get the snare off before it gets too tight. “These snares are lethal. They suffocate the animal. When they (poachers) target hyenas and lions it is for the muti market for sangomas and traditional doctors. The bushmeat trade is very big in the area,” De Beer said. He added that kudus and buffaloes were targeted for the meat trade. “Buffaloes and kudus are killed for meat. They use a knife and would most probably use a spear to kill a buffalo. Most of the time the animals are left there to die on their own. “One buffalo we found three to four months ago had a snare cut through its eye. The snare cut into the head and was engaged to the chin, right to the bone,” De Beer said. He said that normally, poachers would look out for a game path where animals would pass when going to the river to drink water, and set up snares there. “They look for paths where they know they will be successful. Once caught in a snare, the animal will either pull away, causing the snare to become tighter, or the animal in distress will walk around the tree until the snare is too tight.” De Beer works with rangers to look for snares and remove them. “At times it is too late. We often find the remains of animals. We’ve had to put down animals because it was too late to save them” De Beer said. He added that, when caught, a suspect would be charged with hunting with snares, possession of snares, trespassing and illegal hunting. If caught with meat, they would be charged with illegal possession of game meat. “Personally, I think sentences involving snares are not too harsh. You can expect a sentence of a maximum of three to four years if you do not pay a fine. Some of these cases get lost along the way. “We should look more into it if you look at the gruesomeness of the snares. It is very bad,” De Beer said. He said elephants, rhinos, leopards and hippos were also caught by snares, but they were not the target. If the animal was in a bad way, De Beer said, they were forced to put it down. Nine men were expected to appear in the Klerksdorp Magistrate’s Court in North West on Wednesday on  charges of illegal possession of game products without a permit, among others. The group, including a man who lived on a farm where the alleged slaughtering of animals took place, were found in possession of lion bones, lion meat and tiger’s skin.