This failure to urgently tackle these challenges will impact negatively on society’s ability to take part in the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR), warns University of Johannesburg vice-chancellor Professor Tshilidzi Marwala. “The issue of the constraints before us is going to prevent us from fully participating; you’re not going to get society to take part unless they’re able to read, write and have the ability to do basic arithmetic,” he said. He said studies showed that the current teaching methodology in South African schools was not effective. Children needed the ability to think and act logically but the education system was producing learners ill-equipped for university studies, potentially preventing them from contributing or benefiting from the 4IR. The revolution is premised on disruptive technologies and trends such as the Internet of Things (IoT), robotics, virtual reality (VR) and artificial intelligence (AI), all of which are changing the way we live, work and study. But the inability to read, write or count threatens South Africa and the continent’s ability to harness the benefits. Marwala said said few countries in Africa, particularly South Africa and Kenya, are embracing the needs of the new digital age, especially at tertiary level, which can have positive effects on society through technology-based solutions, for example helping rural farming or climate change. Yehualashet Mekonen, the lead author of Ethiopia’s African Child Policy forum (ACPf) Child-Friendliness Index (CFI) on Africa, said one of the shock findings in its continent-wide survey was that more children are going to school but not learning to read or count. “That is one of the major concerns we felt must be urgently addressed and put higher on the agenda,” he said from Addis Ababa. There have been remarkable achievements in improving the wellbeing of children across Africa but a report from a Pan-African policy research group rings alarm bells of an unfolding human development crisis - arising from three major developments, including the intellectual and economic consequences of substandard education that many Africa’s children are receiving. Mekonen said the index painted a gloomy scenario of suffering for children on the continent, many of whom face the twin challenges of under- nutrition and poor education. Mekonen said the poor educational level of Africa’s children was a major area of concern that could affect involvement as the future technologies around 4IR unfold. He added, however, that the index found that South Africa has better access to pre-primary education than most African countries. Writing in the index, Graça Machel said the forum found it unacceptable and “equally unconscionable” that nine out of 10 primary school learners would not have the required skills, knowledge and competencies they were expected to acquire when they completed this basic stage of education. “It is disconcerting that, despite knowledge of this reality, we are not investing enough in the children of this continent. This is a toxic combination that does not augur well for Africa’s future,” she wrote. Former AU chairperson and Minister in the Presidency for Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation, Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, agreed that children emerging out of the South African schooling system without the ability to read and write remained a challenge, which the government was committed to addressing. Minister of Higher Education and Training Naledi Pandor said at a recent BRICS skills indaba that it was crucial for learners to acquire 4IR skills, as two-thirds of the children at primary school were going to end up in jobs that no longer existed. The minister said technical and vocational education and training colleges would get R2.5billion to prepare for the 4IR.