According to Wikipedia, more than 160 countries - out of 195 in the world today - celebrate Christmas. That’s a whopping 82%. These odd thoughts came cascading into my mind when I saw a statement, released by the Department of International Relations last week, about the number of South Africans languishing in foreign jails who will not be with their families on Tuesday to tuck into that turkey and pudding. Dirco said more than 800 South Africans are in prisons across the world for a range of offences, mostly drug related. According to the statement, around 21% of them are in South America. Why do people engage in this dangerous business of smuggling drugs? It is true that the monetary gains can be massive and instantaneous - but equally the risks are extremely high and the consequences dire. The case of 37-year-old Janice Bronwyn Linden, from KwaZulu-Natal, executed in China in December 2011 after she was caught carrying 3kg of crystal methamphetamine in November 2008, is a good example. She was convicted of drug smuggling in 2009, sentenced to death in 2010 and put to death the following year, despite intervention attempts by President Jacob Zuma. The case that has touched me profoundly is that of Nolubabalo Nobanda, now aged 30 and originally from Grahamstown, since renamed Makhanda. She’s incarcerated in Thailand. She was not innocent, by any means. Babs, as she is fondly nicknamed, hit the headlines in South Africa when she was arrested at Bangkok’s Suvarnabhumi Airport on December 12 after getting off a Qatar Airways flight. Police said they noticed a white substance in her hair. They found 1.5kg of cocaine with an estimated street value of $150000 in her dreadlocks. She admitted to authorities she smuggled the drugs and said she was hired to deliver the cocaine to a customer at a hotel in Bangkok. From her Thai cell, Babs released a statement full of intrigue and conspiracies of drug-smuggling syndicates whose tentacles stretch far and wide. If she was lying, then she’s a persuasive, consummate yarn-spinner - so convincing was her account of how she landed in the trouble in which she found herself. “I am not a drug trafficker but a victim of the human trafficking business that is conducted in South Africa by foreigners who come to the country under the pretext that they are running from persecution in their countries. The targeted women are promised jobs overseas, only to find themselves trapped in a spider web of drug traffickers in foreign countries.” Babs, then aged 23, claimed she was lured by a friend who asked that she accompany her to Brazil to fetch hair products for a Nigerian national living in South Africa. From there - with 1.4kg of cocaine weaved into her dreadlocks - she was sent to deliver the narcotics to a customer at a hotel in Bangkok. On arrival in Thailand, Babs said, it appeared immigration officers were expecting her. “They went straight for me and took me to a separate room. There the television cameras had already been set up.” She's serving 15 years, reduced from 30 years for co-operating with Thai authorities. Christmas is a time for family and a sumptuous meal, not to spend it locked up in a dreadful, foreign dungeon.  Makgabutlane is an assistant editor at The Star.