“I went to school in the US and I befriended someone who celebrates Kwanzaa, and as I was attending festivities, they would call their female friends Nubian Queens. I just loved that and the fact that Africans in the diaspora call Africa Nubia. I love that.” She returned home, formed the company and registered it as Nubian Touch. Mathope developed a passion for the hospitality sector after working for Sun International Bophuthatswana and SA Tourism in New York. Mpho Mathope and Oliver Mtukudzi at the Eagle Waters Wildlife Resort in Hartbeespoort. Last year, she started the Nubian Music Festival - a three-day weekend festival at Eagle Waters Wildlife Resort, in the heart of Hartbeespoort. Mathope manages the resort on behalf of the North West provincial government, which owns the property, while it's in the process of being transferred back to a community that had a land claim on it. The festival, in its second year, will feature performances from the likes of Mafikizolo, Mi Casa, Lira, Oliver Mtukudzi, Selaelo Selota, Kunle Ayo and Candy Tsa Mandebele with the backdrop of Hartbeespoort Dam. “With this festival we are looking at promoting Hartbeespoort because there is so much one can do just 40 minutes outside Joburg. I realised I needed to create an event that would make people come and experience the festival while still being able to do other things around Harties. “There is so much one can do, but that is not communicated properly. I am promoting it as a family-orientated event. This year, we are going to have a kiddies zone with magicians and face painters as well as professional childminders. So while parents enjoy the music festivities, the kids will also be kept busy.” Mathope said the December 14-17 festivities would include activities like movies under the sky, an evening comedy show, champagne breakfast and the main event on Sunday. “It takes up to eight months to plan for such an event. I have been in the eventing business since 1990. Last year, we had around 2 000 people attend and this year, we are looking at making way for at least 3 000 people.” Festival packages range from day tickets to the concert on Sunday from R300, to weekend stayover passes from R1 500.