The South African Human Rights Commission will be investigating Andile Mngxitama following utterances he allegedly made about  killing white people while addressing his supporters. The commission said it had received a number of complaints relating to what the Black First Land First (BLF) leader is alleged to have said at a rally on December 8 2018 Potchefstroom, North West. "The commission has also viewed a video from the rally in which Mngxitama tells the audience that they will kill white people. He states that 'we will kill their women, we will kill their children, we will kill their dogs, we will kill their cats, we kill anything that comes for us'." "The commission is in the process of registering the complaints against Mngxitama in accordance with its complaints handling procedures for purposes of conducting an investigation into whether or not human rights have been violated and what steps should be taken to secure appropriate redress. "The SAHRC calls on all within South Africa to assist in fostering a constitutional democracy, based in equality, dignity and freedom by refraining from utterances and actions which threaten social cohesion." The African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP) also laid charges against  Mngxitama on Wednesday against "advocating racial hatred, and for the incitement of violence to do grievous bodily harm" at the Hillbrow Police Station. The party said it also reported him to the Human Rights Council and Equality court. ACDP leader Reverend  Kenneth Meshoe said at a time when all South Africans should galvanize in coming together to fight poverty, inequality, unemployment, crime and the many other socio-economic challenges facing the nation, Mngxitama’s comments were inciting  violence and harm on others, based purely on the color of their skin. "This hate speech borders on a call to commit genocide and cannot be left unchallenged. Action must be taken against Mngxitama. We have a strong constitution and sufficient laws in our criminal justice system to bring the BLF leader to book. Failure to do so would make our constitution and other relevant laws not worth the paper they are written on," Meshoe said.