Instead of living in racial harmony 24 years after democracy, blacks South Africans are instead frequently called "apes", "baboons" and the k-word, among other derogatory slurs. The SAHRC yesterday released its 2016/17 trends analysis report, and its senior legal adviser Alexandra Fitzgerald said most race-related complaints were lodged by black South Africans. Of the 705 equality-related complaints received by the commission, 486 were about racial discrimination. These types of complaints increase each year and have now reached 69%. “The public exposure of many racist incidents can be attributed to the growing popularity and use of various social media platforms. "In addition, people use social media as a platform to express racism. "Derogatory comments, intended to denigrate the intelligence, humanity, appearance and beliefs of black people are rife. “Racist remarks commonly include demeaning epithets such as 'baboon', 'monkey', 'aap (ape)', 'hotnot' and 'coolie'." The use of the k-word was endemic. "These incidents of racial discrimination take place at schools, universities, businesses and in the workplace,” reads the report in part. Fitzgerald said one of the high-profile matters in the year under review was the case against Vicki Momberg, who was found guilty of four counts of crimen injuria in November last year following her racist tirade in 2016. Momberg, 49, shouted racial slurs at Constable Clement Mkhondo, who had been trying to assist her after she was involved in an alleged smash-and-grab incident. The Equality Court awarded damages of R100000 to Mkhondo in June last year. “What the report says about South Africa, and if you look at the statistics, you can see that the spectre of apartheid is still looming large over us and is still casting a long shadow. "The statistics are undeniable. Black South Africans are being subjected to routine and frequent racial discrimination in South Africa,” Fitzgerald added. The report stated that race-related complaints “decreased marginally from 505 in 2015/16 to 486 in 2016/17”. There were 208 cases reported in 2012/13. “The numbers remain extremely high, particularly in comparison to the first three financial years under review, which averaged 266 race-related complaints a year. “Race-based discrimination presents the greatest challenge to the work of the commission, as evidenced by the extremely high volume and the frequency of race-related complaints received in 2015/16 and 2016/17,” the report revealed. In the five-year period from 2012- 17, the Gauteng provincial office recorded the highest number of race-related complaints. “In three of the four financial years, the KwaZulu-Natal provincial office recorded the second highest number of race-related complaints. “The number of complaints in this category has increased in KZN year-on-year, while it has been unpredictable in Gauteng, peaking dramatically in both provinces during 2015/16. “Most other provinces do not demonstrate increases of great significance, with margins in peaks and troughs for these provinces around 5% to 10%, except for the Free State, which increased from no equality/ race-based complaints in 2012 to 42 in 2015/16,” reads the report. Fitzgerald added that among the top five complaints were grievances regarding healthcare, food, water, sanitation and social security, with 631 reports. The Star 