If you have not yet made plans for the biggest party day of 2018, here are a few places in and around Joburg that may be potentially great venues at which to count down to 2019. For CBD residents and those looking for a good time with the children, the City of Joburg will host the 2018 New Year's Eve Countdown Concert in Newtown. Starting at 5pm, performers and DJs will entertain revellers through the evening towards the midnight countdown. Then it will be time to let loose, shout, stomp, pop the bubbly and hug the person closest to you - friend, family or stranger. The music and fun will continue until the early hours of the morning. The city expects the venue - Mary Fitzgerald Square - to start filling up quite early. No alcohol, fireworks, cooler boxes, hubbly bubblies or weapons will be permitted at the venue. If you will be in Pretoria this New Year’s Eve you might want to see yourself at the Time Square NYE Blockbuster Block Party. The 2017 event was one for the books, and this one promises to be even more so. The 12-hour party line-up will include heavyweights in the dance music scene such as Black Coffee, Euphonik, DJ Fresh, Black Motion, Lulo Café, DJ Reddy D, DJ Kent, Vin Deysel, Ayanda MVP (MC), Dino Bravo, Jullian Gomes, Chrizz Beats and Shimza. It will be an “audiovisual spectacular of epic proportions”, organisers say. Joburgers can also look forward to the second annual Afropunk Festival.     3 days to go!!! Tickets ➡️ https://t.co/q5aaBJtdds Don't miss out! See you at AFROPUNK Joburg 2018. pic.twitter.com/JKkmjX77Hd Last year saw a tapestry of designs and traditional prints from those in attendance. This year, the line-up will include the likes of Kaytranada, Thandiswa Mazwai, YoungstaCPT, The Internet, Phuzekhemisi, Azagaia, Kwesta and Thundercat, among many others. Trompies were also recently announced as part of the stage acts set to light up the December 30 and 31 event. For the more mellow crowd there is the First Annual All Love NYE Fest. Three entertainment industry heavy- weights will join forces to spread love across two dance floors at one of Joburg’s iconic venues, Carfax, to welcome the new year in style. More information can be found at Computicket. Quirky crowds can look forward to the Ultra Violet Circus on New Year’s Eve. Madison Avenue in Rivonia will have a special celebration with two dance floors and eight top local DJs in addition to a circus in full UV glow. The Nineties vs Noughties New Year's Eve party at The Barnyard Theatre will be a music roller coaster of hit songs featuring a talented 10-piece cast who revive pop and rock icons from both decades. The Soweto Theatre, in partnership with Jozi FM, will host the Soweto in Colours Countdown to 2019, with two stages, 20 DJs, a fireworks display and a Jozi FM live broadcast. Kempton Park’s Dries Niemandt Park will host the third annual Ekurhuleni New Year Extravaganza. Also in Ekurhuleni, the Tsakane NYE Street Fiesta promises to be the biggest street shutdown in the township, boasting a line-up of 32 DJs at Ishudu Pub and Grill. For a good sing-along party, Super Sokkie 2018 at Sun Park will be ideal. Now in its fourth year, the hit dance party will have all the popular artists, including Kurt Darren, Pieter Koen, Ricus Nel, Leah, Ray Dylan and Jan Bloukaas. There will be plenty more events taking place on the day but the most important rule of all is to keep safe and not to drink and drive.