Judgment was expected on Tuesday morning at the South Gauteng High Court in the case of parents accused of abusing their toddler son throughout his young life until he died. * Timothy and  his girlfriend *Maryke  are standing trial for the horrific murder, abuse and neglect of Baby Daniel who died in June 2016 aged three. Daniel was Maryke's child from a previous relationship. Paramedics were summoned to the child's home in June 2016 where they found his tiny body burnt with boiling water.  He later died. However, both Timothy and Maryke denied that Daniel had been abused, despite a post-mortem report indicating the child had been burnt in the past and had experienced numerous facial bruises and broken bones on his multiple-hospital visits. It was revealed in court that before his death, Daniel had been in hospital a number of times. Once he fell from a tree and broke his legs. Another time he fell off his bicycle and broke his arm. There was also a time when he was alleged to have bruised his eyes after slamming into a sliding door. He was not the only one with injuries though as it was also revealed that two of his sisters fell off the bed. One of them was a few weeks old at the time. During the trial,Timothy- who is accused of murdering the little boy-said  the Child Protection Unit had visited the family twice and found nothing suggesting that the child was being abused. Women & Men Against Child Abuse (WMACA), who were expected to be in court, said expert testimony during the trial was heard about the "unspeakable torture that the toddler was exposed to over and extended period of time." "The list of injuries to his tiny body included a broken elbow, broken femur, injured ribs and a 60% body surface area partial to full thickness burns. There were 15 applications of blunt force trauma, which proved to be fatal, but only after he languished in what must have been unspeakable pain for hours." The organisation said it hoped the the pair would be found guilty and handed down life sentences. "We expect to see a guilty verdict and we definitely won't be satisfied with anything less than a life sentence - for both of the accused. His mother and her boyfriend are equally guilty of the torture and abuse that led to his death," said Miranda Jordan, founding director of WMACA * Not their real names. 