There are over 500 free-to-air channels available via NileSAT to the Middle East and North Africa. This is the highest number of free TV in the world on one satellite. The Egyptian Satellite Company was established in 1996 and it operates under the free zones rules within the Media free zones at 6th of October city near Cairo. While on the Union of African Journalists programme in Egypt in November, journalists and ICT specialists toured the base that provides the communication services networks for the country. NileSAT operates and manages the broadcasting satellites and their Ground Control Earth Stations and Uplink Earth Stations. Owned by several organisations and banks, NileSAT has been able to launch three satellites- one in 1998, another in 2000 and most recently another one in August. NileSAT offers digital direct to home TV and radio channels enabled on one network. The TV channels went from just 55 in 1998 to over 700 by 2013 with an addition of 99 radio channels.  “Our aim is to provide the highest state of the art technology in radio broadcast and internet coverage. We will be expanding to increase coverage through Africa soon,” said Dr Mohamed Ahmed Zayan. He added that the sustainability of the continent would take place through training and upskilling people who will be able to grow the industry in future. “We have a high calibre of engineers that work with state of the art equipment to ensure quality performance. Before 1998, analogue technology was being used.  This meant that for every one transponder, there would be only one channel. Fast forward to the breakthrough of digital and now more that20 channels can be viewed on one transponder. “NileSAT provides by itself and by other uplinks located in Cairo and Beirut in addition to other locations through teleports in Amman, Riyadh, Doha and Dubai. 76%of the 700 channels are free to air while the rest are Pay-TV. This is the highest number of free TV in the world on one satellite. This is due to the wide coverage with common language and culture embracing the region.” In total NileSAT has 1167 satellites in orbit for commercial communications, remote sensing, navigation, meteorological use, scientific use, research and development and national security.