Johannesburg - A security guard allegedly employed by ANC Youth League treasurer-general and outgoing Mabala Noise boss Reginald Nkabinde was found outside his workplace hacked to death, with wounds to his genitals.
It is believed that Armas Namashana’s killers tortured him before taking his life. Allegations are that he was killed by those wanting information relating to the contents of the house in Zuurbekom, west of Joburg, or the whereabouts of its owner, believed to be Nkabinde’s wife, Beauty. Nkabinde has, however, denied ownership of the three-bedroom home but confirmed knowing about the property and its owner. Documents sourced by The Star showed that Nkabinde owned four properties in Joburg, with two of them being in Westonaria, where the house is located. Municipal documents, however, showed that the house belongs to Beauty, who was using her maiden name Matala when she bought the property in 2012. Namashana, a 42-year-old Namibian national, was murdered two weeks ago. The security guard’s body was found a few metres outside the mansion on the morning of January 27. His friend and colleague, Gift Moyo, found the body with several stabs wounds, including one in the testicles. The body had been shoved under a small tree across the road. Nkabinde did not want to comment about the house or the murder case this week despite a family member of the deceased claiming that Namashana and Moyo were being paid by the Mabala Noise boss to guard the house in question. “That house is not mine. I know the real owner but I won’t tell you who it is. I live in Ruimsig and, yes, I do go to that house in Zuurbekom sometimes,” said Nkabinde, said to be eyeing the ANCYL presidency. Nkabinde did not respond to questions sent to him after The Star established that his wife owned the house. He also did not reply to SMSes sent to him on Monday and last week. His wife could also not be reached. Namashana was buried in Letlhabile near Brits two weeks ago. His younger brother Petros said he had also been struggling to reach Nkabinde for some time. “I am told that my brother had not been paid for three months before he died and the family want that money. “This is devastating for us. The Nkabindes have not spoken to us since the incident,” said Petros. The younger Namashana and Moyo insist that the house belongs to the Nkabindes. “I have been at this house for three years and been getting my salary from Reggie Nkabinde. Armas was also being paid by Nkabinde to work here,” said Moyo. West Rand police cluster spokesperson Captain Appel Ernst said: “Our information is that the victim was working as a security guard. “It’s further alleged that the victim went outside to investigate a noise at around 10pm. “The next morning he was found dead by a neighbour. The victim was stabbed several times,” said Ernst. The Star