“They say that when you want to hide money from a black person, you need to keep it in a book,” said the 24-year-old. She said she wanted to remove the stereotype that black people don’t read. As a teacher, education is her passion, and starting a book drive was a natural progression for her. “I feel that young kids need to be introduced to the world of reading so they can develop their cognitive thinking and be able to analyse things critically.” She teaches Grades 7 to 12 and always encourages her pupils to challenge themselves academically. “For the book drive, we are looking for story books and novels. In my profession, most learners fail English because they don’t have the opportunity to read as much as they should. “In many cases, they just don’t have the means, especially schools in Soweto. So I want to afford them the chance to open themselves up to a new world.” The book drive kicks into gear this week. “I am planning to give the books away during Mandela Day for my 67 minutes. I will be spending the day with the school I will be giving the books to.” The Emndeni resident said her aim was to collect at least 300 books, but she is certain she will surpass that target. “The books are specifically for a school I have worked with before - Luyolo Primary School. If I get more than the target, I will divide the books and give some to Emndeni Senior Secondary as well.” If people would like to donate towards the drive, they can contact Mmotla on email or on social media. “In addition to the drive, I’m hoping to feed 67 people for Mandela Day. I’m planning a soccer tournament for my community because there are not a lot of activities going on.” As the first Miss Soweto to hail from Emndeni, Mmotla wants to paint her community in a better light. “I want to bring hope to my community, I feel that Emndeni is famous for crime.” When her reign comes to an end later this year, Mmotla wants to be remembered the most for bringing hope. “For all the girls who grow up in my community, I want to be that beacon so that they can see that there is potential. You just need to be serious about whatever dream you have and also know that your dreams are valid. Nothing is impossible.”