They are also looking at the possibility of charging the farmer’s wife and his son for taking part in the alleged assault and humiliation of the worker, prior to forcing him to drink two litres of human waste. Arrests are expected on Thursday. Springs police spokesperson, Warrant Officer Johannes Ramphora, said the police were treating the case with urgency, because of its gravity. “This matter is getting our best attention. We are looking into formulating more charges such as defamation of character, because of the use of the k-word, as well as assault. "The complainant said he was beaten with a torch while he was being fed faeces. "It looks like the wife was also involved, because she allegedly did not stop her son and husband from beating up the victim,” said Ramphora, who helped take the statement from the victim on Tuesday. An officer at the station apparently refused to open a criminal case when the matter was first reported in December. Initially, only a case of crimen injuria was opened against the father and son for the attack on their 36-year-old employee on December 9. Read the full story here. They allegedly held him and forced him to empty two jugs filled with faeces. The incident happened after he failed to start a septic-tank pump machine. They then allegedly threw the worker into the sewer hole. The Star also heard of several alleged assaults carried out by the pair on other workers and people in the community. There is currently a pending trial of assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm against the father for allegedly shooting and injuring three wood choppers in May. “An investigating officer has been assigned to the matter and will also take statements from the victim’s wife, who was the first person he spoke to after the alleged assault. "After we have collected all the information, a docket will be handed over to prosecutors tomorrow (today) for a decision,” said Ramphora. The SA Human Rights Commission has also launched an investigation into the matter, while the EFF in Ekurhuleni pledged to support the farmworker to ensure justice. The party helped to expose the case. @lindilesifile 