Alwyn Malan, 42, who is a member of the Gauteng Boerboel Kennel Union and one of the organisers of the dog show, said the show’s aim was to raise awareness about boerboels. “What we are trying to do, is to get to know owners of the boerboels in Soweto and in other townships. We don’t care where you’re from. We know that there are people who love dogs. We are trying to start in Soweto where people can bring their dogs and they can be part of what we do,” Malan said. According to Google, boerboels are a large breed that are strong, confident and muscular with a distinctive, blocky head. Malan said such shows played a huge role in educating people about how to take care of dogs. “We want people to know that a boerboel is not (to be) feared. It is a family dog. It is there to protect us, it is there to be with us and love us. We want to teach guys about the history of the boerboel, how to feed it,  etc. We want to make sure that the dog stays healthy and fit. “We want to share skills on how to manage the dog. We want to see people enjoying the dogs. A dog has unconditional love and it is also dependent on you.” Caleb Khoza from Edenvale, who attended the show with his dog, said he wanted to know more about the boerboel. “I am here with Tyson, a five-month black boerboel. I decided to come today because I respect the movement. We all love dogs, but we need to know how to treat them, how to take care of them, so that they can take care of us. It is my first show and I am here to learn,” Khoza said. He said there should be more shows so that many people could attend them. Sam Mposula, who was also at the dog show, said he has always loved dogs. “Attending the show helped me a lot. I got a lot of information and  look forward to attending many shows in the future. It is important to know about your dog and how to treat it,” he said. Mposula has two female boerboels who he said protect his family. “I have been owning them since 2003. I have a strong bond with them, because they guard us at home. One sleeps well at night knowing that one is well protected,” he said. “I would like to attend more shows and next time I will bring my friends who also have boerboels. I think the more people attend, the better. This will raise more awareness. Soweto is a historical place and there are many people with such dogs, but they don’t know about such initiatives,” said Mposula. Interim Secretary Bogosi Serei said they started the union last year and the purpose was to ensure that Sowetans have access to information about boerboels and how best to take care of them. “We often see people walking their dogs but that is not enough,” said Serei. He said they would be hosting many shows in the future and encouraged dog lovers to participate in the show. Serei said the appraisal judge, Jan van Rijswijck, helped boerboel owners to know more about  their dogs. “The judge teaches us about the history of the boerboel. He talks about the conditional structure, movement and behaviour of the boerboel. He also scores our boerboels. He said the show was part of the preparations for the upcoming South African Boerboel Breeders’ Society competition in Randfontein on Sunday. Serei encouraged dog lovers to participate in the show, saying they would be hosting many others in Gauteng. “We call upon people to come and participate and showcase their dogs. The union is the right place to raise awareness about breeding dogs. People can contact us on Facebook: Gauteng Boerboel Kennel Union or call 0824461789.  @SthembisoMedia 