Kelly Khumalo doesn’t hide the fact that she has been unlucky in love. In fact, she knows it very well. “As much as I have not been lucky as far as the ‘world’ love is concerned, the Godly love I have been so blessed beyond,” she said at the launch of the second season of the show she hosts Love & Matrimony. This week has been a busy one for the mother of two. On Wednesday, she put on a performance at the Evening of Love concert at the Sun Arena in Menlyn, Pretoria. Tonight, she will be the supporting act at the Ekurhuleni Comes Alive jazz evening at the Birchwood Hotel & OR Tambo Conference Centre. The launch of Love & Matrimony, which is screened on GauTV, was held at new “it” venue Dorkay at 1 Eloff Street earlier this week. The rooftop event set the mood and the scene for the rest of the love week. “The show is about love, and we chat to your favourite stars about relationships and the ups and downs of it all.” Khumalo said she remembered when she was first approached to be the host. “I asked: ‘Have you run out of the best presenters in the country?’ Not on a cold day in hell did I think that I would be standing in front of you as the host of this show.” For the upcoming season, Khumalo will interview actors Mona Monyane and Khulu Skenjana; TV presenter Luthando Lootlove Shosha on her and rap star Reason’s relationship; singer Candy Mokwena; and actress Phindile Gwala and model boyfriend Armando Ngandu, among others.  “I’m still finding my feet and hoping that one day I will be in a place where I am proud to say I am kicking ass. You guys don’t know what I went through on a daily basis shooting the scenes, this is a new world altogether. I sing for a living, I don’t talk for a living,” said Khumalo. The Uthando singer said she was really tested when she had to interview Criselda Dudumashe, someone she considers to be one of the top talk show hosts in the country. “I would shiver and think to myself, ‘What am I going to ask this woman? Is my English proper?’ I thought about my shortcomings and if I am good enough.” What she did learn from the experience was that when a person is destined for something, nothing can stop it happening. “If God has chosen you to do certain things, it doesn’t matter whether you have qualified according to worldly standards. “If God has said you are doing it, you are doing it. Never let anyone tell you that you can’t, because yes, you can.” Khumalo also celebrated her sister Zandie Khumalo’s album launch this week. Love & Matrimony debuts next Saturday on GauTV. “I know for a fact that God loves me, and that is the greatest love of all. So that alone gave me the push I needed to be the host of this show. I’m thankful.” Her appearance tonight at the Valentine’s edition of the Ekurhuleni Comes Alive jazz evening will see her perform alongside Afro-soul singers Nathi and Zamajobe Sithole. The Napsta will provide the comedic entertainment at the event. If you haven’t already bought your ticket to the hottest event in town tonight, hurry up and book. Tickets are R450 per person and R4500 for a table of 10. The show starts at 8pm.