The “Valentine’s Edition” will kick off the year with headline performances from Nathi, Kelly Khumalo and Zamajobe Sithole. Triple-platinum-selling artist Nathi first gained fame from his hit love song Nomvula. His hit debut album Buyelekhaya won him several awards at the Metro FM Awards and the SA Music Awards (Samas), including Best African Pop Album, Song of the Year, Male Artist of the Year and Best-
Selling Album. Supporting act, the award-winning Khumalo, recently held a successful one-woman show at The Lyric Theatre in Gold Reef City and will be giving audiences at the jazz evening a taste of her powerful voice. Opening act Sama winner Sithole will be presenting a set inspired by Eric Clapton, Sabelo Gxoyiya and Letta Mbulu. Her music fuses Afro-jazz, soul and funk. Taking place at the Birchwood Hotel & OR Tambo Conference Centre in Boksburg, the night is set to be one for the history books. As always, resident MC Hector Motivator will direct the evening’s entertainment in his humorous way, while The Napsta, also known as Napoleon Masinga, will bring his high energy impersonations, accents, ventriloquism, alter-egos and music-comedy to the evening’s entertainment. The Napsta is proud of his clean sense of humour, and caters to a broad audience. The Valentine’s Edition of the Ekurhuleni Comes Alive Jazz Evening is worth exploring,  whether you’re in a relationship or just looking for a good time with single friends on Valentine’s weekend. Enjoy a three-course meal and a fun-filled evening on Friday, February 16, at The Birchwood Hotel & OR Tambo Conference Centre. Tickets are R450 a head and R4 500 for a table of 10. It’s advisable to book your tickets now for what should be a highlight of the love month for you and your loved ones. It starts at 8pm sharp, be sure to be there early to secure your spot. For more information or to book, contact Portia Rathebe on (011) 897 0024, e-mail portiar@birchwoodhotel.co.za or visit www.birchwoodhotel.co.za This event is held in partnership with The Star Newspaper. 