This emerged yesterday when Dr Candice Hansmeyer, a pathologist who examined the body, testified at the high court in Johannesburg about the injuries * Dylan suffered. Hansmeyer was testifying in the murder trial of the child’s mother and her live-in boyfriend. In addition to the murder charge, the pair also face a count of abusing and neglecting the child at their Joburg home. Hansmeyer spoke about the harrowing experience the child went through before dying. She said 60% of Dylan’s little body sustained injuries inflicted by boiling water or hot fluid. The water could not have been from a geyser, but was boiled before Dylan was placed inside, said the pathologist. “If one looks at the toes those are cooked. His right-hand fingers also looked cooked.” While it wasn’t clear how long the child was placed in the boiling water, it was believed he stayed there for a long time. A severely burnt person, as Dylan was, takes up to 12 hours to succumb to his wounds, Hansmeyer told the court. “It’s a process. The pain is absolutely catastrophic.” Hansmeyer said Dylan sustained all the burns and other injuries while still alive. One could only imagine the excruciating pain he had gone through, she said. Children with such burns were usually moribund or inconsolable when treated, said Hansmeyer, who has worked at Chris Hani Baragwanath Academic Hospital. “A child like this would have been admitted to an intensive care unit.” But the pair are alleged to have contacted paramedics only the day after Dylan was burnt. “He was likely not dressed when (he) sustained the injuries. The clothes were put on afterwards. “If dressed, (he’d) have (had) more protection,” Hansmeyer said. Dylan’s body had old and new injuries when it was examined, the pathologist revealed. He had been taken to hospital several times for injuries before his death. The injuries Hansmeyer identified included broken bones and bruises, indicating that the boy was assaulted repeatedly. Hansmeyer testified that the injuries appeared to have been inflicted with a blunt object. His skull and ribs were fractured. She said it didn’t appear that the head injuries Dylan sustained caused his death. “However, I do think it contributed to the mortality of the child.” Sitting apart from each other in the dock, the alleged killers did not seem anything like lovers yesterday. Wearing black, the mother, * Mary, looked composed while Hansmeyer testified. She was granted bail when the legal process started. The boyfriend, * Franklin, wore a red jacket and also seemed unfazed. He has been
in police custody since his arrest in 2016, as he was denied bail. The trial continues today. * Not their real names @BonganiNkosi87