 Sanco and Cosas delayed the opening of the Tladi Community Based Substance Abuse Treatment Centre in Soweto this morning by protesting at the event. Executive Mayor of the City of Joburg,Herman Mashaba was expected to open the centre as an effort by the City to address the scourge of drugs in the area. However that was delayed when the two organisation stated that they did not want him to open it or even adress them. "We don't want Herman Mashaba to come and address us. We were not made aware that the centre is opening today," said South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco) Ward 21 Treasurer General Maipato Madlala. Madlala said as Sanco, they want the local unemployed youth to be employed in the centre. "We didn't get the information about the centre as Ward 21. We want our children to be employed in the centre. This is our community. People can't come here and do as they please," Madlala said. The Congress of South African Students (Cosas) regional executive committee member, Mogalemang Kgaji, 22, accused the Democratic Alliance (DA) of 'stealing' the idea to open the centre from the African National Congress in the area. "Our councilor (Mpho Sesdineye) came up with this plan on the ANC manifesto. We are shocked that today they want to open the centre. This is our idea. This can't happen under our watch. We will defend our idea," said Kgajeni. He said job creation was important to end drug abuse. "They didn't advertise that they will be opening the posts. The youth are not employed that is why they end up taking drugs. We don't have anything to do. We thought they will employ the youth from this area," said Kgajeni. DA Ward 21 chairperson, Doris Mosii said the centre would officially open today. "No one is going to tell us what to do. This centre is meant to help the youth who have drug problems. Why should the poor kids suffer?," asked Mosii. She also said SANCO should stop politicizing the opening of the centre. "This is not about politics but about the people.They say they 'don't want Mashaba to come and address us'," said Mosii. President of the National Unemployed Coordinating Organisation Forum, Sithembele Madlala condemned the protest. "This is not acceptable. We can't allow this to happen. Our kids really need help. Drugs are a serious problem. I hope police can stop this and the official programme starts," said Madlala. The Star