From protests to waiting for a president to step down, this has been a week filled with drama, excitement and suspense for South Africans. Sthembiso Sithole wraps ups some of the stories that made headlines: #DefendANC vs #HandsOffZuma  On Monday, clashes broke out between #DefendANC and #HandsOffZuma protesters outside Luthuli House.  This follows the Black First Land First (BLF) announcement last week that they will lead a "Hands off Zuma" demonstration, calling for President Jacob Zuma to be allowed to serve out his term. The #DefendANC supporters did not take it lightly as they organised its supporters to “defend the ANC headquarters.” Thabang Setona assaults woman Thabang Setona, branch secretary in Johannesburg inner city Zone 12, was caught on camera kicking a woman during a scuffle between anti and pro-Zuma supporters at Luthuli House. Setona handed himself over to police on Monday after he appeared in a video circulating on social media. On Tuesday, Setona appeared briefly at the Johannesburg Magistrate's Court. But the court struck the matter from the roll as the victim has not yet come forward to file a complaint. Zuma meets the Zulu King President Zuma met with Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini in Ulundi on Monday. The Presidency, in a statement, said it was a mere courtesy call and added the meeting was meant to take place in January. Routine Cabinet Committee Meeting President Zuma held a urgent meeting with cabinet ministers in Cape Town on Tuesday. The meeting was held a day before the ANC NEC meeting that was scheduled for Wednesday. The NEC meeting was cancelled after reports emerged that Zuma had a meeting with the party President, Cyril Ramaphosa.  #SONA postponed  For the first time in the democratic South Africa, the State of The Nation Address (SONA) was postponed. National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete said the fear of a possible repeat of previous disruptions of SONA addresses had prompted Parliament's decision. Ramaphosa calls on South Africans to be patient Amidst mounting speculation over the future of President Zuma, following the postponement of SONA, and the postponement of an ANC NEC meeting, ANC President Ramaphosa called on South Africans to be patient. In a statement, released by new ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe, Ramaphosa acknowledged that he and Zuma had discussions on Tuesday night about “the transition and matters relating to his position as the President of the Republic”. “The discussions were constructive and lay the basis for a speedy resolution of the matter in the interests of the country and its people.” On Thursday, Ramaphosa told the party's Parliament caucus that immunity from prosecution for President Zuma was not part of the "transition" discussions. He also told the MPs that the talks would be concluded in a "day or two".  ANC Top Six not participating in planned public engagements in Cape Town On Friday morning, the ANC issued a statement stating that the ANC's Top six will no longer participate in the build up towards the #Mandela100 Rally planned for Sunday. "This is because of various  other commitments they are required to attend to." "The mobilization programme will however proceed with a number of NEC members deployed in and around Cape Town today. The Rally on Sunday, 11th February 2018 will also proceed as planned and shall be addressed by the President of the ANC, Comrade Cyril Ramaphosa, at 15:00," said the statement.  #DeLille to fight DA secret ballot in no-confidence vote  Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille has gone to court to ensure that DA councillors are free to vote “according to their conscience, either in favour or against the motion of no confidence against me”. The vote is scheduled to take place on February 15.  Follow @TheStar_news  and @ReporterStar for breaking news.   @SthembisoMedia 