Although the Sona has been postponed until further notice, some politicians are ready to hit the red carpet and showcase their latest gowns. Yesterday, at a designer visit hosted by SA Fashion Week, The Star team were invited to go behind the scenes with local fashion designer Gert-Johan Coetzee and witness how he goes about making his fabulous garments. Coetzee has become a household brand in the fashion industry, and a number of local politicians commission him to design and make couture gowns for them. He has dressed a number of politicians and ministers, who requested “mature and sophisticated looks” for the 2018 Sona. “The first person I recall to have dressed was Thuli Madonsela. She was our first big political figure for the Sona. We dressed her in this beautiful big ombré gown that was inspired by the sun,” he said. Without revealing too much, the designer said that this year, he would again be styling Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba’s wife Noma. “I never like to mention who I will be dressing for the Sona, but seeing that it was supposed take place (today) She (Noma Gigaba) would literally take off her high heels and kill me,” he laughed. “But, with Noma, she is in a place in her life where she is starting to be taken very seriously, because of her husband and also the effect that he had on the rand-dollar exchange.  “I think her role as a politician’s wife vs her Instagram social life has changed, where now she is a lot more serious,” he added. Coetzee described Noma’s dress as sophisticated, with clean lines. “It’s not like anything we’ve done in previous years. “I think that not only is it a trend that she has asked for, but I have seen it from all the politicians I have dressed. “In the theme in previous years, they wanted to go there and be noticed,” he said. READ: Trend alert for #Sona2018 According to Coetzee, the female Sona attendees he styled this year asked for comfortable dresses, because they are there to work. “But at the same time they just wanted to look good on the red carpet,” he pointed out. Coetzee added: “I like how the red carpet is maturing, and red carpets in general in South Africa are getting where they have a more mature type of theme to it.  “I have never been to the Sona, but from what I understand, it’s very busy and very small. “You can’t have this massive ball gown with a train on the red carpet, so we kept things beautiful and together, which photographs well,” he explained. Among other projects that the top designer will be working on this year is showcasing 13 different looks for Tracey Lange, the host of South Africa’s Dancing with the Stars, and preparing for the SA Fashion Week’s spring/summer collection. He told The Star that the industry had become cut-throat and that his inspiration with his collections was now driven more by the theme of a season. “Throughout the years, people could see that I love China, Japan, Africa and the colour pink,” said Coetzee. He was one of the first local designers who invited the media to his personal design space. This was an initiative headed by the SA Fashion Week to promote and build South African designers.