Ramaphosa, who was delivering the State of the Nation Address in Parliament earlier this month, said tourism was responsible for 700000 direct jobs in the economy and “there was just no reason” why this number could not double. “We have the most beautiful people in the whole world, and we are the most hospitable people in the whole world. And there's no reason (why) we cannot grow our tourism industry,” the president said to a rousing ovation. The Star recently visited parts of the Xanatseni region in the Kruger National Park (KNP), an area which neighbouring communities refer to as “better than a gold mine”. Xanatseni is the northernmost region of the KNP and is an exquisite expanse of land stretching over 530000hectares of land. This area is divided into six sections and is part of the 3.3-million-ha Great Limpopo Transfrontier Park, a huge conservation stretch of land established in 2002 encompassing the Limpopo National Reserve in Mozambique, as well as the Gonarezhou National Park in Zimbabwe. During our three-night stay at the Shingwedzi lodge it was hard not to marvel at the wide array of animals - elephants, giraffes, buck and monkeys - existing peacefully in their natural habitat. But what was more astonishing was the involvement of locals from neighbouring communities in taking part in nature conservation in and around the park. This was highlighted by AG Tibane, chairperson of the Makuleke Tribal Authority - representing people who were violently removed from their land in 1969, under the Natives Land Act of 1913, in order to extend the size of the KNP. Makuleke land, which stretches over more than 20000ha, was returned to its people in 1998 under the custodianship of South African National Parks (SANParks), a state-owned entity. Tibane said it was his people's responsibility to play an active role in nature conservation, not only to reclaim their heritage but also to promote tourism so as to diversify their community's economy and accelerate job creation. “We have a good relationship with the KNP and are able to visit our ancestral graves whenever we want to. Our youth are being employed as environmental monitors (EMs) inside and outside the park because we have a huge problem of litter pollution, which is bad for tourism,” Tibane asserted. The EMs programme began in 2014 and also plays a crucial role in the fight against poaching. “There are two ways to hunt: you can either hunt with a gun or you can hunt with cameras. Tourists hunt with cameras and take pictures of our beautiful animals. “So, if they take photos of the litter, they will go back to their countries and say: ‘This is what South Africa looks like’, which will be bad. That's why the monitor programme is good because our youth, who know the area, are galvanised to take care of our environment,” Tibane added. He was proud that the first woman regional ranger in the whole KNP - Tinyiko Golela - came from his community. He said Golela would be an inspiration to girls to pursue a career in nature conservation. Golela, 40, arrived in 2001 after completing her national diploma in nature conservation, and became a field guide for tourists. She rose through the ranks at the park to become the regional ranger of the over 530000ha Xanatseni region and is in charge of more than 150 staff members, comprising  field guides, field rangers and other law enforcers, environmentalists and EMs, most of whom are from neighbouring communities. Golela, a married mother of three children, said her deep interest in nature began when she was very young, living close to the KNP but having no access to it. She decided to study nature conservation as a means to access the park - which she called “the envy of the world” - and fell in love with conservation work. SANParks spokesperson Ike Phaahla said the entity was working on introducing a division of social development in communities neighbouring the KNP and hoped to create a hospitality economy within villages. “We want tourists not only to stay in the park but  also to experience village life. We are in consultation with local tribal authorities and the community at large and should be launching the division shortly,” Phaahla said. @khayakoko88