This is what a man is alleged to have said to her girlfriend after beating her three-year-old child who later died. Baby Dylan* died in June 2016 after allegedly being being submerged in boiling water. In addition to 60% of his little body being burnt, he sustained injuries including broken bones and bruises. His mother, Mary*, and former live-in boyfriend, Franklin*, are now on trial at the high court in Joburg for his murder. Franklin is not the child’s father. They also face a count of abusing and neglecting the child at their Joburg home. The State believes the boy was harmed repeatedly over time. On Tuesday, Mary’s lawyer, advocate Mario Coetzee, told the  court that his client intended to testify that she learnt of her child’s death on the morning of June 25, 2016. Coetzee said Mary intended telling the court that Franklin woke her up around 7.30am to tell her that Dylan was no more. His body was apparently in the same room in which she slept, but in a separate bed. Mary last saw the toddler alive at about 11pm the previous day, Coetzee said. He also told that court  that Dylan, who was at the time speaking coherently but with a red mark on his face, woke up to wee outside. “Accused number one (Mary) fell asleep when the deceased opened the door and (went outside),” said Coetzee. “Accused number two (Franklin)  woke her up on 7.30am to say the child is dead.” Dylan’s clothes were damp when the mother touched him, said Coetzee. “She put him on the floor and tried to perform CPR. Accused number two, as well as a neighbour, also performed CPR on the deceased,” said the lawyer. Coetzee stopped short of shifting blame for the murder of the child to Franklin. He said Franklin and Mary had fought physically hours before they went to sleep in two different rooms. During this fight, which started after Mary  had returned from work, Franklin told her he had harmed the child, said Coetzee. “Words he used was ‘I f***ed him up’.” Dr Candice Hansmeyer, a forensic pathologist who examined the toddler body, questioned the plausibility of the mother’s version. Considering that he had already suffered head injuries, Dylan could not have walked outside to wee, Hansmeyer said. “I don’t believe he had capacity to go outside and empty the bladder. We do know at post-mortem the bladder was full. “That child would have been in pain, I don’t believe that nobody heard him screaming out,” she said. Cross-examining Hansmeyer, Coetzee asked her if it wasn’t plausible that Dylan sustained the burn wounds while unconscious and therefore unable to scream. She rejected this. Mary and Franklin sat apart from each other in the dock. They barely looked at each other. While Mary is out on bail, Franklin did not get bail, and has been in custody since their arrest in 2016. His lawyer was set to cross-examine Hansmeyer on Wednesday as the trial continues. * Not their real names @BonganiNkosi87