 Dancer and TV Personality Chris Jaftha TS: What is the one lesson you have learnt about money? CJ: Money has wings! If you don’t take care of the pennies, the pounds will elude you, TS: Do you have a monthly budget? How do you go about keeping to it? CJ: I do but it changes, due to my saving habits. I budget enough for my monthly expenditure and try to cut down from there so I can save more. TS: What are the essential things you spend your money on? CJ: Right now, I’m renovating my apartment. It’s a major overhaul so I’m spending my money on increasing the value of my property as well as new furniture. TS: What is one guilty pleasure you will not give up, even when the rand is low? CJ: Movies! I’m an actor, so I’ll always find a way to watch a movie at least it won’t break the bank. TS: Do you believe in saving? If so, do you have a monthly plan? CJ: Yes, I do. My monthly plan is to save as much as I can and better than the previous months. TS: What has been your biggest splurge this year? CJ: Renovations and furniture.    Radio DJ Mo Flava TS: What is the one lesson you have learnt about money? MF: You need to have a plan for your money. We all strive to make as much as we can, but having no plan can lead to you wasting money. I get money coming in all the time, so I’m extra careful with what I do with it. TS: Do you have a monthly budget? How do you go about keeping to it? MF: I prioritise all important commitments, then work out how much I’m saving and how much I’m spending on leisure. I’m generally within the budget. TS: What is one guilty pleasure you won’t give up, even when the rand is low? MF: Buying sneakers and watches, regardless of inflation or whether or not the rand is weak or strong against major currencies. TS: Do you believe in saving? If so, do you have a monthly plan? MF: Yes. I save a portion of every income stream I have.The portion depends on the amount of money coming in. Saving gives you a safety net, but it also allows you to afford high-cost items because you would have built a bank of money. TS: What has been your biggest splurge this year so far? MF: Sneakers! R3999 is the most expensive pair I’ve bought this year. The overall amount I've spent on sneakers so far this year is around the five-digit mark! TS: What is the one lesson you have learnt about money? JD: It comes and goes, especially as a business owner. Cash flow is very important. TS: Do you have a monthly budget? JD: I do now because my income has become more stable. In entertainment and entrepreneurship, it takes time for you to get a steady and consistent income. I have a budget now and try to stick to it, but I spoil myself when I want to. TS: How do you go about keeping to it? JD: I pay many thing before their due, and then I’m allowed to do what I’d like with the rest and any added income that comes in. TS: What are the essential things you spend your money on? JD: Besides my car and home, I love really healthy food. I also spend a lot on skincare and my workout with a personal trainer and private gym.  TS: What is the one lesson you have learnt about money? MM: Stay within your means, avoid unnecessary expenditure and debt. If you’re wise about where you prioritise your money allocation, it can multiply. If not, the opposite will happen. TS: Do you have a monthly budget and how do you go about keeping to it? MM: Yes. Self-discipline is key when it comes to me sticking to my planned monthly budget, hard as it is sometimes. TS: What are the essential things you spend your money on? MM: Property, fuel, travel, daily living essentials, random family emergencies if need be, oh, not forgetting data! TS: What is one guilty pleasure you won’t give up, even when the rand is low? MM: Clothes. TS: Do you believe in saving? If so, do you have a monthly plan? MM: Yes. I do put some money away (savings and investment accounts) monthly for rainy days, which I do my best not to touch unless absolutely necessary. TS: What has been your biggest splurge this year so far? MM: Clothing. I recently went ham on buying clothing items for my upcoming shoots and appearances. Looking good, for me, is good manners, and I do believe that people address you based on how you show up looking in a space.