Baby Mamas, a comedy drama starring Thembisa Mdoda, Dineo Ranaka, Salamina Mosese and Kay Smith has been selected to be screened at the Toronto Black Film Festival. The film follows four women sharing their experiences on the joys and woes of being single moms, while also still searching for true love. The production took four weeks and will only be showing in local cinemas later this year. Stephina Zwane, the director of the film, said the journey had been full of challenges. “There are many when you are in the film industry. The process of applying for funding and receiving it takes a minimum of a full year. You need to be very patient and not give up halfway.” Zwane, together with Mosese, own Sorele Media - a TV production, media training and communications company. “It’s been a learning experience for Salamina and I as producers. There is so much that goes into making a film outside of just the technical aspects. We’ve had to learn that all by ourselves, sometimes through trial and error,” said Zwane. They had entered the film for a different festival that would be taking place later in the year but the Toronto Black Film Festival was excited about the film and selected it to be screened.    “Thankfully we have the support of various organisations which are also funders.  The National Film and Video Foundation (NFVF) are great supporters of filmmakers in South Africa. They will be paying for the flights. We will have to make a plan for accommodation.” The festival, which is now in its sixth year, is dedicated to giving unique voices in cinema the opportunity to present audiences with new ways of looking at the world. Celebrated as part of Black History Month, the Canadian festival will screen over 60 films from 20 countries.  For their Black History Month Series, South African film Kalushi: The Story of Solomon Mahlangu will also be screened. For Baby Mamas, this won’t be the only festival they showcase at. “There is a second international film festival that the film has also been selected into in the next few months. We will be preparing for that.” Zwane and Mosese have been working in the television industry from a young age. Both women have worked in presenting and have had acting roles in shows such as Scandal, Gaz’Lam, 7de Laan and Backstage among many others. Their company launched an online TV station AzaTV in 2015 that focuses on entertainment and lifestyle. Baby Mamas is their second film. The first feature film Love and Kwaito was screened at the Joburg Film Festival in 2016. “We didn’t have much of a budget, but we soldiered on. Baby Mamas is the first feature we do with the support of bodies like IDC, The DTI and NFVF, and a decent budget,” said Zwane. Their future plans include producing more films. Zwane’s advice to creatives who want to get into the world of movie making is: “Upcoming filmmakers need to gain multiple skills. “You can be a sound engineer, head of wardrobe or director of photography. The film industry is broad, we just need to find the right opportunities.” For Zwane, her love for storytelling is what keeps her going. “We have amazing stories to tell in Africa, we’ve only just begun.” The Toronto Black Film Festival runs from February 14 to 19. @mane_mpi