The film Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri has already won several awards and is most likely guaranteed some Oscar nods come March 4. It took home Best Drama Motion Picture, Best Supporting Actor, Best Screenplay, and Best Actress at the Golden Globes. Ster-Kinekor invited media and celebrity guests for an Oscar Buzz Night to screen the film so we could see what the hype was about. It centres on a woman whose daughter was raped and murdered but the perpetrator is yet to be found. She then buys advertising space for three unused billboards just outside the town of Ebbing, where her daughter’s remains were found, and the drama unfolds from there. The comedy and conclusion of the film is surprising and will certainly have audiences glued to their screens throughout.  Ster-Kinekor’s sales and marketing officer Motheo Matsau said Ster-Kinekor was at the heart of the film industry in the country. “The Oscars are a tent-pole film industry global event and so we have a role to play in bringing the content that has been nominated for the Oscars to the South African audience. Our job is to exhibit it.” He said there was a direct correlation with the Oscars and more people coming to watch movies during that awards period. “There are several things that drive people to the movies - the pre-movie hype, the expert critics and recommendations, and when people tell others about it. The pre-hype (marketing and publicity) can’t be bought. “In the film industry, it’s a fact you can judge how a film is going to do from its first weekend. “That tells you a lot about how film is consumed. The more movies are spoken about and advertised and critiqued and reviewed before the time, the more people come and watch.” Matsau said the Oscar Buzz was all about celebrating the nominated films. “When we are lucky, we also have South African movies in there, which makes it even more interesting - but the Oscar Buzz itself is just for Oscars; a once-a-year get-together with industry to watch the movie and talk about the Oscars.” In terms of the decline in the film industry, Matsau said that it was a 30- to 40-year-old phenomenon. “It’s been argued that film has been declining since the advent of TV. So in South Africa that is 1975/76. “I think what is happening is the sheer numbers of people attending may be declining, but the people who are coming are coming more often, so you now have a quality audience as opposed to just a quantity.” Matsau said it also depended on the content that was out there. “In the last five to 10 years in SA and other similar markets, local content has become a determining factor. People don’t stop coming to movies because they hate movies, it’s about what content is there that is relevant to them. Every time we get the content right, people do then come back.” Piracy and bootlegging films continued to be a problem, but Matsau said it was highly impossible to replicate the cinema experience. “Like everywhere in the world it (piracy) affects the entire industry, but in cinema it is very difficult if not impossible to replicate the experience. You can watch the movie on your phone or wherever you have bootlegged it to, but to replicate the experience is not an easy thing to do, so that is one thing the cinema industry has going for it,” he said. Rhythm City’s Petronella Tshuma, TV presenter Candice Modiselle and actress Gabisile Tshabalala were some of the media personalities who came to the Oscar Buzz screening. Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri is nominated in seven categories for the Oscars, including Best Original Music Score, Best Film Editing and Best Original Screenplay. @mane_mpi