Johannesburg - Cosmo City parents have vowed to shut down schools in the area on Thursday morning in a bid to force the Gauteng Department of Education to build more schools in the area. There are 12 293 pupils in eight schools, including five primary and three high schools in the township which is north of Johannesburg. The Cosmo City education desk, which compromises parents, community leaders and school governing bodies said they were tired of waiting for schools to be built. “There are no children in schools this morning,” said the education desk’s Lehlohonolo Moneri. He said they had met with officials from the department on Wednesday night but nothing came out of the meeting. “Unfortunately there was nothing new the six officials deployed put on the table. We have requested them to inform MEC Lesufi that we will be ready to meet him today. We are still waiting. He has not arrived,” Moneri said “In some of the classes, there are about 90 children,” he said. “The best way is to keep kids out of school. They will not be missing out on lessons. What are they gaining now? Nothing. They are missing out anyway (in these overcrowded classrooms). Teachers cannot give each child attention. Our children are not getting quality education.” Another member of the education desk, Fathwani Luvhengo, said they had been engaging with the department since 2016 but “all we get are empty promises”. Cosmo City Junior Primary School has the highest number of pupils with 1861. It is followed by Cosmo City West Primary School with 1636 learners and then by Cosmo City Secondary School with 1455 children. Tirisano-Mmogo Primary School has 1434 learners while Cosmo Primary No 1 School has 1346 followed by Blue Eagle High School with 1022 pupils. There are 996 pupils at Sgodiphola Secondary School while Far North Secondary School has 955. Department of Education spokesperson Steve Mabona said MEC Panyaza Lesufi will not meet parents who shut down schools. “MEC has been engaging with all community members in different areas. He is willing to meet the Cosmo City community as well, however he does not meet with parents who shut down or disrupt schooling. Parents must allow schooling to proceed then, he will meet with them,” Mabona said. He said they would only build a primary school in 2020. The Star