As an unconventional way to celebrate Valentine’s Day, Health enthusiasts will tell you that a yoga session is all you need to re-energise your body. For the month of love, journalists were invited to attend an outdoor yoga session that focused on loving yourself. The combination of love and healthy living was an initiative by Slimatone, a South African women wellness brand. Instructor Teagan Webster emphasised that Valentine's day was a day to remember to ‘love yourself’. “Spend this time, loving yourself, feeling yourself and sending gratitude to yourself. Today is all about you,” she said. Local influencer and vlogger, Thulasizwe ‘Lasizwe’ Dambuza was among the health enthusiasts who experience healthy day of love. “It was very heartwarming, It was basically you contacting your ancestors because it was tough physically. Some position were very testing but black people must do yoga a lot. But it was a refreshing experience, because you come out feeling like a new person, so you will be flexible for your man,” he laughed. When Dambuza was asked if he was dating someone currently, he said: “Yoh, don't confirm me. I am dating them. I am dating all of them. I am not dating anyone, guys I am single.” “I feel so special that there are people like Slimatone that care about us and our wellbeing and like seeing us fit, slim and happy,” said Dambuza Slimatone founder Alexandra Botez (CORR) said: “This was a day to celebrate love and most importantly be a gentle reminder to self love. If you love yourself first you will be able to take care of others. As a brand we aim to empower and strengthen women by making them feel stronger and healthier." Botez said she was aware that it was hard to maintain a healthy lifestyle but was always encouraging women to live a healthy lifestyle. “We partnered up with amazing brands to deliver this event. We decided to create this event because, let's be honest, there a lot of single ladies and you don't want to be depressed on this day (Valentine's). You want to feel loved and you want to be spoilt and feel fabulous on this day.” “As Slimatone we are aiming for something innovative and to deliver our customers the best.” @Zwane_2li2ls