However, it is the title of a new show set to air on GauTV about the journey of the LGBTI community from tonight at 9.30pm. Dr Teboho Moema, host of the show, said it was about “transcending the boxes” and seeing human beings as human beings. “It’s a journey. We are hoping finally that it will send a clear message that when all the walls and boxes dividing us as human beings (are removed), what remains is just human. From every walk of life, humans have the same needs to live in a community where they can be loved and accepted for whoever they are,” he said. I Was In The Closet will be a narrative on people’s stories of coming out. Moema spoke to seven people - well-known personalities as well as individuals from different walks of life. “My overall feel with the people I have interviewed is that all of them are quite happy with the decision of coming out. It has made their world much better. They have had to remove that heavy stone of having to live in ambiguity and finally be true to themselves and know that people who are around them are there for who they are not what they are ‘supposed’ to be.” Moema serves as a pastor and a motivational speaker. He said he wanted the show to highlight people coming out despite cultural, religious and social attitudes. “The whole show is a safe space for people to share their stories and all the nuances of how they came out and what they experienced. Others shared how they even had families rejecting them but eventually patching up those broken relationships,” he said. Moema added that the little boxes - race, sexual orientation and class for example - were just superficial boxes that meant nothing. “But somehow we take them too seriously instead of coming together as a cohesive society we have learned how to divide ourselves.” He said he was certain there would be another season to allow him to focus on different themes. “I trust we are going to have another season. I would love to deal with issues of people who have come out and are married and allow them to share their stories of how they have worked out their marriages. “In a cultural context, I would love to have people who have adopted children (outside their race). I would love to have people who have had negative situations experiences around justice and also have another dealing with the dynamics of culture and religion carrying conversations.” Moema said that ultimately, the aim of the show was to send a clear message that as a society, it was important to transcend the boxes and see each other as fellow human beings. A launch for the show was held at Melrose Arch Sunday  evening. @mane_mpi