That one personality trait is probably what won him the hearts of many citizens, young and old twice over. Anytime he wasn’t in a formal setting, his charming personality would shine through. Zuma is that guy who gets the party started. Who can forget the Joburg CBD shutdown in 2009 when the ANC won the general elections? The then Sauer Street was closed off in the green, yellow and black colours, with a stage in the middle of the street outside ANC headquarters, Luthuli House. While Winnie Khumalo sang Mina Ngizohlala Nginje, Zuma proved just how supple he was by getting down with the dancers on stage. And the time when he was showing guests how it was done at his 75th birthday celebrations, he almost moonwalked. The January 8, 2016 moves showed that he was born to entertain. What a sight. His energy was bursting, smiling from ear to ear. How many presidents can sing the way Msholozi does? How many presidents can lahl’umlenze at a moment’s notice? Not very many. And the few who can don’t have that Zuma touch or sultry voice. Some of his highlights as president came when he was at ANC rallies getting the crowd going. If Zuma had gone to a Model C school, he would have been the house captain of the war-cry team. The crowd would erupt as soon as Zuma got himself ready to break into dance. Arms stretched out, hands closed in a fist position, he would sing out loud with a clear voice: “wen’uyangi bambezela” to excited followers who would join him in song. Awuleth’ Umshini Wami, for those who don’t know, is a Struggle song used by former members of Umkhonto weSizwe during the apartheid era. Meaning “Bring Me My Machinegun”, the song was a reference to the fight the military wing was ready for. Often times Zuma would shape his arms into a machinegun when singing the song and shake his body. At the funeral of Nelson Mandela in Qunu, Eastern Cape, Zuma led the song Thina Sizwe at the podium. The song, meaning “We the Nation”, speaks about crying for the land that was taken. The song had everyone standing up and singing along with the president to celebrate the late icon. Another firm favourite, Inde Lendlela Esiyihambayo, was a fitting song to sing when he opened the 54th ANC national elective conference in December for the last time as president of the party. The song goes “there is still a long way to go on this journey”, and then: “wash’ uMandela kubalandeli bakhe wathi sodibana nge Freedom Day”, meaning Mandela told his followers that we would meet on the day of freedom. When Zuma first won the presidency, it was his likability that made citizens vote for him. He has a friendly aura, even with the bodyguards who surround him. Dubbed the “laughing president” during his parliamentary question and answer sessions, Zuma cheekily told members of Parliament his laugh was not in any way hurtful, but rather, healthy. “I don’t know how to stop my laughter; is it hurting?” he asked members during a 2015 session, as he continued his speech while giggling in between. His jokes on the Nkandla report and the mocking of Mmusi Maimane’s broken man speech showed how he had the ability to make light of situations, making opposition parties irate. “That’s part of the problem, again it emphasises the poverty of politics in our opposition parties,” he had said. Zuma has in the past spoken about how he did not want to become president. In an interview with the SABC, he said he would have rather become a teacher, a pastor or lawyer had the opportunity to continue his education been available. Not one to shy away from his cultural beliefs and traditions, Zuma has the ability to go from suit and tie to his traditional Zulu attire and still command attention and adoration. Zuma may have been a president full of controversy, but no one will ever forget his natural charm, the character trait that led to him becoming the people’s president. Where to now for the ever smiling, giggling, and soon to be former president of South Africa? Only time will tell, ngoba inde lendlela esiyihambayo (because it is a long walk we take). @mane_mpi