Everything that is worth fighting for is going to have challenges.
“I have had a fair share of my own, but I am grateful that I took the journey,” said Afro-soul singer Brenda Mtambo. The songwriter has come a long way since her first solo show in 2010. “I remember it very well, I hosted it at the Bassline. I was so scared, but I had to do it and throw myself in to see if I would be able to swim. I did it and even now in 2018, I have been consistent.” Mtambo is preparing for her One Night Experience at the Joburg Theatre on Saturday. The show is all about bringing her music to the people. “I haven’t had a concert in a while and I released my second album in 2016 already, so I just wanted to bring the people something that I need to do. “People have received it via radio and buying CDs, but I felt like it was time I presented it live and staged a concert.” Her first album, Inspired, gave birth to a new Brenda, and allowed music lovers to truly appreciate her voice. “Music has always been a calling for me. I have always known that from a very young age. But I realised it was a career when I went to work for a corporate. I realised that the joy, contentment and happiness I found, the feeling that I got on stage, is incomparable to anything else.” So she decided to pursue music. “Music and my heart Life is about following your heart. Mine was to be on stage, to heal and to bring perspective to a lot of people. Sometimes people suffer in silence, and music gives one hope.”  Mtambo started out as a member of the successful Joyous Celebration. She said being part of that ensemble helped her grow in ways she wouldn’t have been able to had she decided to start off as a solo act. “Gospel music is directed mostly to Christians and people of a certain religion. It can be very direct. I wanted to touch the world. I wanted to be heard universally. “I have people from Mexico who follow me and say even though they don’t understand the language, the music did something to their souls. That is what I wanted to achieve with my music.” Her hits I love You and I Re- member (I Believe), from her second album So Much More, are just some of the songs that show her lyrical prowess. “I wanted to touch everybody and I knew that gospel wasn’t something that I would pursue, but Joyous Celebration was the space that I needed to first learn a lot of things. “Musically, they are one of the best we have in the country. I learnt a lot in order to embark on my own journey.” When Mtambo decided to leave the ensemble, it was because she felt it was time for something new. “When I want to pursue my own thing, I go insane. I stop everything, and at that time people were asking me what was going on. “I resigned from Joyous, I resigned as a backup singer, because I couldn’t go on if I couldn’t let go of that first. I had to push myself.” In her upcoming concert, she will be sharing the various parts that make her whole. Mtambo said she would also be performing some new music she has been writing. “I have songs that I have been wanting to perform for the longest time. “I have new songs I want to introduce and check if they will be loved. “I spend time in studio to check where I am with all my songs and will release them if all goes well. “There is an album that is going to come out, but for now I am recording the songs.” The music producer will also have surprise guests join her on stage. “People who follow me know that my music is unpredictable,” she says. 'We (artists) don’t sit and say this is what we want to see happen, we pour our hearts out on the day. On the day it is going to be more emotional and real, it will be regal and authentic and African and soulful.” Tickets to the event cost R250, Show starts at 7pm. 