Now that the budget speech has come and gone, The Star asked some celebrities and media personalities about their spending habits, whether or not they believed in saving and how they splurge. Miss SA first Princess- Boipelo Mabe What is the one lesson you have learnt about money? Money is not meant to be chased but made. The moment I understood that, was the day I started to see the many opportunities to make money,  especially in South Africa. Do you have a monthly budget? How do you go about keeping to it? Absolutely, consciously managing my money is key. I keep to it by never compromising on what's priority. Each month comes with added or new expenses and the only way I effectively manage those is by listing them in order of importance. What are the essential things you spend your money on? Everything that ensures my wellness and security (on various levels); that's a long list of things that range from savings, my home, healthy food, family investments, tithes and offerings. What is one guilty pleasure you will not give up, even when the 'Rand is low'? Shoes! The rand can be low but my heels stay high! Do you believe in saving? If so, do you have a monthly plan? Saving money has saved me too many times for me not to believe in it! Lupita Nyong’o to star in Trevor Noah’s biopic I have several investment accounts with debit order systems in place and have this year explored other ways of saving; I've joined a December grocery stokvel with some of my colleagues, which will save me a great deal of Christmas grocery shopping for my family in December. What has been your biggest splurge this year, so far? I recently moved to my own place so my biggest splurge for now and probably the next few months will be furniture and house decor of which I'm now obsessing over. My biggest this year was on a custom made couch. Designer- Ryan Keys What is the one lesson you have learnt about money? Money is hard to make but easy to spend Do you have a monthly budget? How do you go about keeping to it? I have a monthly budget but I am pretty lenient on myself with it! I keep looking at my budget throughout the month to see if I am on target, if I should shop going out or if I am going to be able to splurge on those things that I wouldn’t usually buy! Malusi Gigaba quotes Kendrick Lamar in #Budget2018 speech What are the essential things you spend your money on? I spend my money on good food, good wine and experiences! I feel that these things are needed to keep you sane and enjoy your money that you have worked hard for What is one guilty pleasure you will not give up, even when the 'Rand is low'? I am a big traveller! So even when the Rand is low, I will still travel! You can never put a price on an experience!! Do you believe in saving? If so, do you have a monthly plan? I do believe in saving! I love putting money into different policies and putting money into long term investment and buying shares! We all need to do this every month for our future retirement and for that special holiday! I believe everyone should put a percentage of their salary away every month, you never know when you may need it! What has been your biggest splurge this year, so far? This year I have splurged on a new car! I needed a car that wasn’t so flashy and better on my petrol. I had a few incidents when I was hijacked and nearly hijacked so decided I needed something more economical and very safe  Medial Personality- Blue Mbombo What is the one lesson you have learnt about money? I have just finished reading the book: The Richest Man In Babylon and I can proudly say I have learned a lot about money but the highlight or biggest lesson would be... To Live Below Our Means. For example...if we paid ourselves first at least 10% of what we earn that leaves us with 90% or less of our income to live on. Controlling our expenditures enables us to make good use of the money we have left over after we paid ourselves. Do you have a monthly budget? How do you go about keeping to it? I do have a monthly budget and I think it's essential for every individual to have one, more than discipline monthly budgeting allows me to create a spending plan for my money. I find it easy to budget or stick to my monthly spending plan plan because I am disciplined. What are the essential things you spend your money on? I spend most of my money on basic needs, which includes housing, food, car and family Do you believe in saving? If so, do you have a monthly plan? When you are in the entertainment industry saving should be your best friend, simply because not every month would be as good as others and yes I do have a saving plan.... I have also added the lesson of 10% that I took from The Richest Man In Babylon book. What has been your biggest splurge this year, so far? Apart from investing in crypto currency and family Busisiwe I have not spent money this year and I plan to keep it this way for a long time. Actress- Hildegardt Whites What is the one lesson you have learnt about money? Money isn’t as difficult to come by as you may think.  You just need to be creative and diligent. The Illusionists’ thrilling intrigue and neat tricks Do you have a monthly budget? How do you go about keeping to it? We do, and we stick to it as best we can. But the nature of our work often means that income can be unstable so we sometimes have to tailor our budget on a monthly basis, and not annually like most people would. What are the essential things you spend your money on? Pretty much the same as anyone else.  Housing, medical aid, fuel, insurance.  All those fun things! What is one guilty pleasure you will not give up, even when the 'Rand is low’? Sushi, and the internet! Do you believe in saving? If so, do you have a monthly plan? Absolutely.  Saving is extremely important for people in our industry, because freelancing is such a big part of it.  You don’t always know if you will have a dry spell where you will need savings to draw from.   It’s not really a “plan” as such.  We just put away what we can when possible and keep it for emergencies. What has been your biggest splurge this year, so far? We haven’t really had one yet.  But last year, definitely the birth of our child. BIG splurge. Singer- Vusi Nova Do you believe in saving? If so, do you have a monthly plan? ​Yes saving is very important - especially in my industry. You need to always have at least 6 months Living expenses saved up before you make any life changes. What has been your biggest splurge this year, so far? My Medical bill - I had been misdiagnosed .... Chicken Pox was at first  a weird Virus that Doctors could not diagnose and I went for tests and tests. Eventually without Medical Aid and R63,000 later  we realised that it was just chicken pox. "So I have now looked into a Medical Aid Cover and so should each and everyone out there. Even if you invest in an entry level medical aid make sure that you have GOOD Hospital cover. If I was on Medical aid - a huge part of the Medical Bills would have been paid.  mane_mpi   The Star 