Justice Mbali was only 20 years old when he paid the ultimate price while illegally connecting electricity in Slovo Park informal settlement, south of Joburg. Mbali was well known for helping residents connect to the power grid. Nearly a month after he was electrocuted, Joburg mayor Herman Mashaba launched a R50 million pre-electrification project that will put an end to dark days in the informal settlement. More than 1000 households will be directly connected to the power supply in three months. There are nearly 4000 households in the area. Residents of the settlement near Eldorado Park had resorted to illegal connections, posing a danger to themselves and their children. On Monday, Justice’s sister, Bukelwa Mbali, said her brother died on January 25. “He was helping residents connect electricity. We were told that he was electrocuted, fell off the ladder and hit his head against a rock. He died moments later. “His death was horrible and it hurts. I am happy that we are now going to get electricity. We have been waiting for this day for too long. We will finally get what we have been waiting for. This will put an end to the deaths in the area due to illegal connections,” Mbali said. Slovo Park Community Development Forum member Lerato Marole said the illegal connections had resulted in the deaths of many people. “We waited for years for this. We are not yet happy because we have not seen a truck installing power cables. It has been a long journey, with politicians coming here and promising us things but never delivering,” he said. Marole said other service delivery issues included lack of houses, sanitation, water and roads.  Some residents were worried about political parties using the development of Slovo Park to campaign for the general elections next year. City Power will install prepaid meters in the area. Another resident, Sphamandla Soko, said he was happy that they would get safe electricity to use. “We are prepared to pay for electricity. Illegal connections are not safe. Shacks have burnt down because of this. We need electricity and we are willing to pay for it,” said Soko, cautioning against politicising the development of the area. One could see electric cables criss-crossing the ground and in the air. Children played in the dusty streets, oblivious of their surroundings. In 2010, residents took the City of Joburg to court over lack of electricity. Despite an order granted in their favour, the previous administration defied the court. “We will electrify the area and give you the dignity you deserve,” said Mashaba. During his keynote address, Mashaba put aside his speech, saying he wanted to speak from the heart. “There is nothing to celebrate by giving you electricity 23 years (into our democracy). We do not have to celebrate this. Let us just do the work and stop the celebrations. “I will ensure that I get weekly reports from City Power on the work being done,” Mashaba said. He said the city would make a plan to ensure that the whole settlement was electrified. “I am quite confident that we will make a plan. Let us ensure that we put additional money to electrify this area. Allow me to apologise on behalf of the democracy for failing you,” Mashaba said. He said he was deeply hurt that the people of “a world-class African city” were living in such conditions.  @Smashaba  