“When was the last time you really loved you  A love that didn’t have to come from someone else? “Loving yourself isn’t as easy as they say When self-doubt drops a line, it takes strength to clap back To speak your truth without a trending hashtag. “So, in this month of love and every day that follows, celebrate the courage it takes to keep loving yourself,” says a voice speaking over a colourful and vibrant video, featuring six women. Media personality Refilwe Modiselle is one of the women featured in the social media call to action. Her reflections on self-love are always documented in her posts, so it was fitting that she would be an ambassador for #BraveToLoveMe “I’m a big advocate of being true to oneself and loving yourself wholeheartedly, despite society’s stereotypical ideologies of what is acceptable and unacceptable when it comes to beauty. “When I was approached to do the campaign, I felt it even more important to be a voice for a movement that speaks of people/women owning their existence Owning their individuality and loving with no limits.”    Modiselle was born with albinism and says that has always placed her in a different mindset. “From birth I’ve had to find a mechanism to cope against the world’s ideas of blackness, identity and beauty and what defines the girl child growing into a woman. “I’ve had to make peace with not being a so-called conventional norm and find love in how God created me.” She says one thing that people forget is that everything begins with the self, and “you radiate your truth according to your own understanding, and not because you want to make the world happy”. She stresses that self-love is key. “It’s important for your own sanity and in your journey of completing self and fulfilling your purpose. Without love in you for you, you cannot give that back to the world and operate at your best.” As an influencer for the campaign, Modiselle hopes it will speak to the woman who needs to do introspection and inspire something positive in herself, and for those already on the right track to celebrate themselves unapologetically. Modiselle has experienced a lot of rejection, but has never felt unloved. “I can’t say I have felt unloved, because the foundation of receiving love from home planted a seed that I seek nothing more than God’s love and love from those who matter to me.” Social media is a place where a lot of people feel they need to be someone else to be accepted. Modiselle has this advice for them: “I always ask the question: Who are you beyond your profession, status and social media standing? When all of that is stripped away, who are you in your truth? “If you have to keep up the admin of being someone you are not, at some point it all unfolds. Just do your best. There is only one you, so love, appreciate and honour that.” Modiselle is one of six influencers selected by Brutal Fruit to represent the campaign. The others are TV presenter Danine Naidoo, fashion designer Genna-
Wae Webster, stylist Yoliswa Mqoco, artist Glow Makatsi and musician Delta, The Leo. “Social norms have prescribed to women how to behave and have limited their expression for far too long,” says Brutal Fruit’s Leanne Martin. “The campaign encourages women to stop seeking validation and love who they are.”