Hatang said 2018 should be the year that everyone makes a difference and helps build the legacy the late former president would be proud of. “We are saying to the people: ‘Don’t wait to be led. Don’t wait for someone else to tell you this is what you need to do. Find a corner that needs attention and solve the problem that needs a solution. “And in 2018, if we can do anything, it needs to deal with poverty and inequality, try to build a country we imagine Madiba would be proud of’,” he said. Hatang, who is celebrating 10 years working for the foundation, said they were working hard to ensure Madiba’s vision and work continues to impact on many people’s lives. “All our activities fall into three categories, one being ensuring the brand Nelson Mandela and the Mandela Foundation continues to respond to current challenges and that the brand is spread and makes a difference. “The second  is dealing with poverty and inequality in honour of Madiba because I think he [Madiba] had a lot of unfinished business and we try to see what we need to do to finish that business. “The third one is ensuring we take this legacy to another level both in South Africa and globally in terms of values,” said Hatang. He also said it was important to build a value based society because that was in line with Madiba’s vision. “If you had such a value based society, each one of us can then find a Madiba in you, then in the process hold on to the value and make progress,” said Hatang. The ANC declared 2018 as the Nelson Mandela Centenary to honour the life and work he did in the country and abroad. President Cyril Ramaphosa launched the party’s year long celebrations of the centennial year in honour of Mandela at the Grand Parade in Cape Town at the Nelson Mandela Centenary Celebrations on Sunday February 11, 2018. Ramaphosa chose that day as it was on that day in 1990 when Nelson Mandela was released from prison after 27 years. “We have chosen to launch the centenary celebrations here on the Grand Parade in the city of Cape Town, because it was here that Madiba spoke his first words to the South African people after 27 years in prison. “He spoke here, not as a prophet, but as a humble servant of you, the people. It was here that he declared that our march to freedom was irreversible. “That day will forever remain etched in our collective memory as a moment of great joy and great hope,” Ramaphosa said. On the day, Ramaphosa encouraged South Africans to work together in honour of Madiba. “Let us work with even greater purpose to unite our people - African, coloured, Indian and white - to build a new nation in which all have equal rights and opportunities. “Let us find a way to work together to build a nation in which all our people have jobs, food, good education, good health and security,” Ramaphosa said. He also said the country celebrates the centenary of Albertina Sisulu too, “a great daughter of the African soil who dedicated her life to the service of her people”. Hatang said that in honour of Sisulu, South Africans and government should work together to improve the country’s health care system. “She [Albertina Sisulu] cared about the issues that relate to health care. In her honour we must make sure our health care systems work. And if you look at Life Esidimeni, we should make sure those kind of things don’t happen in honour of maSisulu.” The foundation last week held a three-day conference on poverty and inequality and will next month together with the Constitution Hill host the Human Rights Festival. The aim of the festival is to get all South Africans to resonate with the constitution, promote and defend human rights. According to Hatang, they will also be hosting dialogues to get different communities to participate in the centenary. “In June we will work with young people, identifying projects that will be sustainable. We want to make sure that we have people who will further this legacy. On April 9, we will be counting 100 days to Madiba’s birthday, doing a count down to July 18th,” said Hatang. Every year, the foundation calls on people to come along and climb Mount Kilimanjaro in honour of Madiba and to raise funds for different initiatives and last week Facebook announced a three-year partnership to support the Nelson Mandela archive. This aims to bring together the geographically dispersed archives of the life and times of Mandela into a single online collection. Facebook said it will work with the foundation in its goal to document, preserve and ensure these are made accessible to all. The partnership also aims to help build on, protect and maintain the legacy of Mandela. Hatang said this partnership will help in rolling out multiple projects throughout 2018 which are intended to cement Madiba’s legacy in the public domain, as well as allow the global community to celebrate his life-long commitment to making a positive impact in society. “So what we will be doing with Facebook in the next three years is, they are going to give us their platforms, both Instagram and Facebook, for us to promote the [Madiba] legacy in a bigger way. “They will help us refine our portal so that the portal reflects the greatness on Madiba and have more information on the legacy. “We consider them a key partner,” said Hatang.  @SthembisoMedia 