The vibrant 22-year-old is the host of the new MTV Base show Gqom Nation. Now in its third week, the show is a platform for showcasing established and up-and-coming gqom artists in the country. Duma has taken to her role as the host in her stride. “We’ve been receiving a lot of love from people. It’s not just about showcasing the forefront of gqom but we also get to tell people what gqom is, how it originated, who originated it and what it’s all about. We profile gqom dancers and we get to bless you guys with live performances,” Duma said. She said the show profiled gqom DJs, the favourites and the unknowns. “We will also have some female DJs that people didn’t know about or didn’t realise they were in the gqom scene. We only know Babes Wodumo but there are actually quite a lot of things that people don’t know about and we are going to reveal those things.” Duma shoots her scenes in a studio. But she revealed that the behind-the-scenes footage with the dance crews and DJs sharing their love for gqom and why they started was a must-watch. “I got a call from Monde Twala and he said I was the person for the job because I live and breathe gqom music. “I really understand it and
I have been learning about it.
It is informative and educational. I didn’t think twice about it. I said ‘yes, I’m jumping on this one’. Finally in my career I’m getting something that resonates with my personality. Something that I truly enjoy.” Duma said she enjoyed shooting the show even though it got a bit draining with the long hours and early mornings. “I hope there will be a season two because, by the look of things, people are really enjoying it. I couldn’t be happier.” Duma, who also dabbles in acting, said gqom was such a hit because everyone wanted to be part of it now. “It’s becoming so big and I’m glad to be part of it.” Some of the other projects she is working on for this year include a lingerie line called Love Lisa and also continuing with Touch HD. “The lingerie line is named after my daughter Sbahle Lisakhanya Mzizi. It’s for women of all sizes and will be launched on my daughter’s birthday on June 28. “I’m really excited about that, and to see myself growing as a brand, growing in my career and growing as a woman and as a mother is just absolutely incredible for me.” She added that motherhood was the best thing that had ever happened to her. “I think God knew what he was doing when he blessed me with such a wonderful and incredible daughter. “I’ve been such a crazy person - very bubbly and loud, that’s me. I have learnt a lot of things now that I am a mom. “There are certain things that I have to be as a mom and I am more focused now.” Gqom Nation airs on Fridays at 6pm.