Her voice is clear, excited and happy after a long time away from the music scene. “I took a break a little bit to centre myself and clarify my thoughts. Sometimes there is just too much going on and I just wanted to step away for a little bit. Now I’m back,” said the star, who rose to fame after making it into the Top 10 of Idols season 2. Four years since her last music release, she recently gave her fans a new single, Sobabili last year on radio and shot a music video for it on Tuesday. “I had a great time. The vibe is still buzzing for it and everybody on WhatsApp is going nuts. I’m really excited about it. “I’ve had this song, even when I was trying to find myself again, in moments of this process. “I would practise a lot and really gravitated, when I was playing guitar, towards certain chords and I’d sing the song. “I’ve had it for a while and I really, really love it and want to put so much effort into making South Africa really fall in love with the song as well,” she said.  Sithole is working on a full album that will be released independently hopefully by midyear. “I have to research a lot of things myself whereas before I had a record label and they would give me deadlines and things like that. I’m really leaning into releasing mid-year because of my style. I don’t want to be in the December rush.” Her decision to go independent was because she wanted free reign on her creativity. “I’m in such good spirits and really working well with the people in my space. “I feel like right now I’m at a stage where I want to try new things within the realm, and knowing how things work. “I don’t want to work with people who are so experienced and constantly telling me of something being done before or saying my ideas are impossible. “I don’t want to hear that. “I wanted to go it alone and set really high goals but be realistic. Employ young people who want to work and learn and give them guidance,” she said. Although this will be her first performance as the opening act for the Ekurhuleni Comes Alive Jazz Evening Valentine’s Edition, she is not new to the Birchwood Hotel stage. “I think that’s why I wanted to take a break. So that when I start again, things are fresh and I have the same excitement with a new perspective and bring something different to every stage I perform on,” she said. Her fan base is eager to hear her new music and for the audience at the jazz evening, this will be a special set filled with nostalgia. “People haven’t seen me in a while so I will be performing my hits - Ndawo Yami, Magic and the music that people know me for. “We will be doing what we do, we won’t change anything. “But the only thing that will be different is the energy, the type of energy in the space that I am at. I’m giddy like a little child,” she said.  Her last few performances have been all about connecting with the crowd. “It’s been so nostalgic and just seeing the people’s faces. “I did a performance last week and I hardly sang anything - people were singing the lyrics, saying how much they miss my music. “I guess it’s a space where I just need my audience right now and they are there for me. Not that I’m in a doubtful space but they play their role as well. I do my best to give them good quality, sincere and truthful music and right now I need them to tell me if I’m on the right path. I’m on that connecting level.” Zamajobe will perform at the first edition of the Ekurhuleni jazz evening. Nathi and Kelly Khumalo will add to the magic of the night as the main and supporting acts. The valentine’s edition of the Ekurhuleni Comes Alive Jazz Evening is a must on your February calendar - whether in a relationship or just looking for a good time with single friends on valentine’s weekend. Enjoy a three-course meal, and a fun-filled evening on Friday, February 16 at The Birchwood Hotel and OR Tambo Conference Centre. Tickets cost R450 per person and R4500 for a table of 10. Starting at 8pm.  For more information or to book contact Portia Rathebe on 011 897 0024, e-mail portiar@birchwoodhotel.co.za or visit www.birchwoodhotel.co.za 