JOHANNESBURG- The Johannesburg City Library staff  had to abandon plans to shut down the library on Friday morning over claims that their salaries were being illegally docked and their overtime not paid. The workers held a meeting at the library  saying they were fed up and want what rightfully belongs to them. However, they did not go ahead with the planned shut down over fears that they would be in trouble with their superiors as they did not have the right to close the library. According to Pride Tshabalala a senior assistant at the library, monies were being deducted from their salaries every month and there was no explanation for that. To make matters worse, she said, a roster -which contradicts their actual register- was allegedly cooked by their line manager. “This is purely fraud. They are clearly tampering with our salaries and we want explanations. To show that what they are doing is not legit, the amounts are not the same. Sometimes it’s R400 that gets deducted and other times its R4 000. You just don’t understand what is going on,” she said. Tshabalala said that also affected her home life as there was no stability and one often had to under budget, anticipating the deduction. Another employee, Sifiso Mbambo concurred with Tshabalala over the the alleged cooking of the roster and also accused their line manager of instructing them which days to take off. Mbambo also claimed that wokers were also forced to work on Saturdays with no remuneration. “We sign a register everyday but the manager also creates her own schedule and takes that to the payroll department. So, on days that you actually were at work, you are marked absent,” said Mbambo. He also showed The Star a payslip where R2710.50  was deducted for  “arrears unpaid leave”, claiming that he never skipped a day of work  that month.  A meeting took place to address this matter on Thursday morning but staff said their line manager and assistant director of the library, Tsakane Shiburi and the MMC of Community Development Nonhlanhla Sifumba did not show up. The workers have since sought legal assistance, claiming that their union, Independent Municipal and Allied Trade Union (IMATU) has not done anything to resolve the matter after they first brought it to their attention in October 2017. The Star