The future is female. This was the message emphasised at the annual Mrs South Africa charity ball. “There is no tool more effective than the empowerment of women,” said Joani Johnson, quoting former UN secretary general Kofi Annan, at the glamorous affair. The event, held at Emperors Palace over the weekend, saw women from all walks of life coming together to celebrate their accomplishments. It also saw the announcement of the 25 finalists who will spend the next few months preparing to compete for the title of Mrs SA. “The Tammy Taylor Mrs South Africa is an entrepreneurship programme that has a ripple effect across the country. 
“As one of the leading female empowerment programmes in the country, we identified the need to align ourselves with the foundation that supports the same values,” Johnson said. “Women4Women is the brainchild of our principal judge, Cindy Nell-Roberts, and we have, over the past eight years, listened to the most incredible stories of women we have had the privilege of working with. “We wanted to create a platform for these women so that they may continue with their incredible within their various communities,” said Johnson, former winner and the chief executive of Mrs SA. “We are incredibly honoured to be working with Women4Women as our official non-profit organisation. Together we can achieve great things and truly effect change in the lives of women and children in our country.” Hosted by Pabi Moloi, the gala dinner saw more than 70 finalists walk the runway in front of friends, family and the judges. Reigning Mrs South Africa Nicole Capper said her daughter, who was born with cystic fibrosis, inspired her to overcome fear. “I knew that she would need to fight, and so I decided to fight; I would pursue all the things that scared me so that one day I could authentically ask my two children to do the same. “I have learnt two main lessons through this empowering lesson: I am capable of so much more than I have ever dreamt; and limits are merely in our mind and are designed to be broken,” Capper said. 
“I learnt along the way that this journey was also for me. I could not pour into my family fully unless I was filled. This journey has helped me rediscover my essence.” Capper said the essence was of an adventurer. She once climbed to Everest Base Camp in aid of a rare disease. 
“The crown has been a priceless gift of growth, and I want to use this freedom and strength to inspire others to find their voice and fight their battles.You are capable, you are purposed, you are enough.” The charity ball is in aid of the Cancer Association of South Africa and has managed to raise millions of rand for the organisation. The Tammy Taylor Mrs South Africa winner will become an SABC3 ambassador and represent South Africa internationally at the Mrs World pageant later in the year. The judges who will decide the winner of the title are Vusi Zwane, Hlengiwe Twala, Leanne Dlamini, Chris Jaftha, Mel Viljoen and principal judge Nell-Roberts. The main event will take place on November 10 on SABC3. @mane_mpi