As part of the Mandela 100 celebrations, artist Erhardt Thiel created the iMadiba Project, the size of the cell the Struggle hero lived in while incarcerated on Robben Island. “What kind of conversations do we want people to have in it?” Thiel asked. “Conversations for action and change. We aren’t close to the dream Mandela hoped for the country yet.” Thiel said he called the stations, situated in various parts of the country, micro-museums. Explaining the concept, Thiel said: “I’ve taken Madiba’s prison cell and removed the walls, but kept the footprint and bench height of the cell walls.  “The symbolism of breaking down walls is to get people to talk to each other, as we are still on our way” He said he came up with the idea two years ago and had built 15 replicas. There is one at the Nelson Mandela Foundation in Joburg and another at the Ahmed Kathrada gravesite. There are replicas at the Mandela museums in the Eastern Cape and the Robben Island Museum. There is also one in Qunu close to Mandela’s grave. The Sandton one is the first to face a statue of Madiba. “Art can effect change in the world. When you look at it, it makes you wonder: is it a monument, a sculpture or art installation? Is it a stage or is it a bench? “I wanted to create something that would outlive me, and specifically for the next generation,” Thiel said. It was going to be a great thing to see people sit on one of the iMadiba conversation stations and think about what the country still has to do to realise true freedom, he added. “When this project be- comes interesting will be a year from now, when I launch the app to link them all and build the world’s biggest museum.” The structure is made of concrete and steel. In winter it’s as cold as Madiba’s cell, Thiel pointed out. “The conversations that happen there should also be brutally honest. We know where we come from the question is, Where are we heading?” Nelson Mandela Square has commissioned a 100 logo installation in the spirit of the “love” installation in New York City, complete with mirrors to symbolise reflection. Using the official centenary logo from the Nelson Mandela Foundation, the aim is to draw crowds to this Instagrammable installation to be shared across social media platforms with the #BeTheLegacy hashtag.  The installation will live in Nelson Mandela Square, next to Madiba’s statue. In addition, a “Writing on the Wall” will be positioned on Nelson Mandela Square, encouraging people to write and share their messages of hope as a continuation of Madiba’s legacy. At the end of the campaign, these messages will be repurposed into stationery bags and donated to needy schools. Preston Gaddy, general manager of Nelson Mandela Square, said the square would be transformed into a space of celebration and commemoration. “The Mandela centenary is a highly auspicious occasion and we are proud to be sharing moments of love, charity and tribute in Madiba’s memory.” On Friday, the Special Olympics SA will celebrate their 50th birthday On the Square, lighting up Madiba’s statue in red. @mane_mpi