For the past seven months residents of the Emfuleni Local Municipality have been suffering due to water shortages. The municipality, which owes Rand Water almost R214 million has blamed that on a 10% water cut by Rand Water because of debt. However, Rand Water has maintained that the shortage was because the Municipality’s pumps to their pressure tower were not operational. Despite the lack of clarity on what is actually causing the shortages, ordinary citizens and businesses are the ones who are suffering. Roshnee Nursery Pre-School is currently without water. The pre-school which has about 150 children between the ages of three and six had to go around the community asking for water with large plastic containers. This may not be enough for the toddlers who need to drink, eat, go to the toilet and wash their hands. Principal, Zuleika Hassen said: “The law is that if you don’t have water then you cannot have school but how can we close the school every time we’ve got a water problem?” She said the pre-school has been experiencing the shortage intermittently but was happening almost every month now. Zainub Sarang is a Roshnee resident who has an infant son and two-year-old child. “They eat all the time. They mess and it’s very difficult to their hygiene because I need to clean them and also wash their bottles,” she said. Sarang said she always has 5 litre bottles filled with water in her home because she knows water shortages is a regular problem. “But now when my water runs out, what do we do?,” she said. Fatima Ahmed said they were some days when her family has to choose between using the toilet and washing their hands or washing their body because there is not enough water for both. “We are paying for water but we know of areas that are not paying their bills and they are getting free water,” said Ahmed. “Our water bills comes up to almost R3000 and our rates are over R700.” She said the areas that have free water are killing them because of exorbitant fees. Fatima Sujee lives in a high-lying area of Dudaville where she said there are instances where there is no water coming out at all. “We were so fed up and frustrated that we took out a loan to buy a Jojo tank because how else must you manage without water,” she said. Sujee said the tank was between R8 000 - R10 000. The community also has many elderly people such as Hajra Mahomed who said she was struggling to take care of her parent-in-law and her young children at the same time without water. @Chulu_M