For the last two-and-a-half years, Sibusiso Mfaba has been volunteering his time to his ultimate passion. 
The 33-year-old started a new job this month that he hopes will help him reach his goal of becoming the coach of the national women’s cricket team. 
“Few people have the opportunity to wake up every day and do what they love and actually earn a living from it. For me that was the biggest pulling factor to go for my dreams.” 
Mfaba, before his volunteering, spent five years working in the corporate world, but he didn’t feel fulfilled. The comfortable job afforded him luxuries, but they didn’t give him the inner growth that he desired. 
“When I took the plunge it was because I felt like I could have more growth if I followed my passion.” 
After knocking on many doors in the sports industry, he finally landed a role that is sure to take him further in his chosen career path. At the beginning of this month he took on the position of head coach and administrator of the regional performance centre at the Eastern Cricket Union (ECU), based in Actonville, Benoni. “The role means I will be looking after all elite players in Ekurhuleni – boys and girls from under 13 to under 19 – a massive achievement for me and something that I have been looking at for a long time.” 
Mfaba has always been a sports guy, starting from primary school, where he took part in various sporting codes. His bug for coaching started a few years ago when a friend told him about a cricket club in Vosloorus. They needed some players to join their team.
“I started playing a bit and noticed some needs in the structure at the club and a gap in the things that were being done that maybe I could assist.” 
That was when he started to communicate with ECU manager Marvin Tsehisi to find out about courses he could do and get a qualification. 
“I was looking at maybe getting a certificate in coaching. At that time I wasn’t looking at it in a professional capacity, just something informal to better the situation at the Vosloorus cricket club. But after that it just kept on and I really enjoyed it.” 
His volunteering included coaching mini cricket at the Ayanda creche in Eastfield and a variety of groups at the Vosloorus club, and being involved on the committee as deputy secretary. He has also coached the Calypso Sisters cricket team for the Battle of the Roses tournament.  “Through this and being involved in a variety of cricket related events at the ECU as a liaison officer I learnt how needs are best met without compromising on the quality of work and care factor when dealing with children.” 
Eventually, Mfaba decided to have a conversation with his mother about leaving his office job to focus on his passion. She told him to go for it. “I made the decision, then served my notice and resigned.” 
His new role at the ECU is a stepping stone to greater things. 
“I’m now looking ahead to a coaching future that will see me maybe after three or four years coaching the under 19 academy side at the ECU and moving to a senior provincial team. Then hopefully one day coaching the South African women’s team.” 
Why women and not men? 
“I just have a passion for women’s cricket and it happened by mistake that I fell in love with it. The Vosloorus team had four or five girls who wanted to play, but we didn’t have enough players, so we ended up putting them in a team to play with us. It was their passion for the game and just wanting to be treated with the same amount of respect and opportunities and time as the males.” 
As sport is not just about the physical, Mfaba has taken it upon himself to strengthen his knowledge of the theoretical side. He has completed his coaching level 2. “Now I just need to work hard and produce results for a level 3 and I’m looking into sports psychology or sports science. I just haven’t made my mind up yet as to which one.” 
The passion and the hunger for the game keeps growing as he learns more and interacts with players and professionals. His love for teaching the youngsters is a way of giving back.
“With any kinds of sports, kids enjoy it when they are involved. They need to have the correct basic skills in order to keep them coming and developing. You are not looking for the next superstar when you are coaching young kids, you are just showing them passion and an opportunity to showcase their skills. It’s also about teaching them life skills as a player and as a person.” 
Mfaba says his aim is to form strong bonds with them by taking them off the streets.
“It requires commitment and better performance as well from their side. It’s about opportunity and creating the right environment for all kids to flourish. I approach that kind of philosophy; treat the kids equally and get the desired results. It’s important to create an environment where each kid can do their best.” His major concern and something he wants to help alleviate is the lack of training facilities available to children. 
“It’s hard to develop them without facilities. I think that with management and looking after the facilities, if that is done right, it will go to levels or heights where it deserves to be, and that is something I want to be a part of.” 
For people who want to take the plunge, like Mfaba did, he advises them to do as much research as possible first. 
“For whatever it is you are trying to get into, ask questions with the right people, consult your peers, friends and family and even your current managers at the job so that you know what you’re looking at. They are the people who will be able to tell you what sort of qualities you have. Put everything on paper and see where it can take you.” 
He said people should ask themselves the hard questions and plan first before jumping without any idea of where they are headed to. 
“At the end of the day it will all be worth it.” @mane_mpi