In one of the latest incidents, a Limpopo father was arrested after he allegedly hacked his three sons to death. Police said the killings came after the man, 43, accused his wife of infidelity and questioned the paternity of the children. In another incident in Mpuma- langa, Noluthando Masango, 6, was found possibly raped and killed after her family missed a R5000 ransom deadline on Thursday. Hours after Noluthando went missing from her Siyabuswa home, her kidnapper allegedly called her family and demanded a ransom. Noluthando’s tiny bruised body was found in a stream near her home where she lived with her grandmother, Leah Masango. Her aunt Zanele Masango, 20, said Noluthando disappeared on July 21 at a traditional ceremony at home. “The kidnapper called using a private number, and all we could hear was Noluthando crying in the background, calling out for her mother, Portia. The caller did not say anything. We received the call a number of times. “On Sunday (July 22), the person sent a message to Gogo Leah’s phone. The person demanded that we deposit R5000 at Shoprite. We were also warned not to involve the police,” Zanele told The Star. She said they informed the police, who advised them not to deposit the money. “The person told us that we had until 1pm on Thursday (July 26) to deposit the money or he would kill Noluthando. The caller said he was sent by a relative to kidnap Noluthando. We still do not know who could do something like this. “We did not deposit the money, and on Thursday just before 1pm, I identified Noluthando’s body after it was discovered in a stream. As soon as I got home, we received another text message and the person said he was aware that we had found Noluthando’s body,” Zanele said. Mpumalanga police spokesperson Colonel Mtsholi Bhembe said: “It appears that the victim was strangled and possibly raped. However, a post-mortem will be conducted.” Police figures show that each year, between 800 and 900 children are murdered in South Africa. Thousands of women are expected to march against femicide and gender-based violence (GBV) across the country and in Botswana and Lesotho. “Every week, we receive multiple reports of women who have been brutally murdered, kidnapped or abused, and there is no sense of urgency from our leaders to find ways society can tackle this violence. “Women, children, gender non- conforming people and the LGBTQIA+ keep dying at the hands of men in South Africa and something needs to be done. This is a national crisis,” said #TheTotalShutdown: Intersectional Women’s March Against GBV. In the Limpopo case, police spokesperson Colonel Moatshe Ngoepe said the incident occurred around 2am while the children were asleep. “It is alleged that the suspect accused his wife of infidelity and that he is not the biological father of the three children. He started chasing the wife with a sharp object but she ran outside to look for help. “Unfortunately, the suspect went to where the kids were sleeping and killed them,” Ngoepe said. The children are Tshilidzi Madou, 7, Thabo Madou, 6, and Olugaho Madou, 2. Last week, Uyathandwa Stuurman, 4, from Khayelitsha, Cape Town was killed. In June, Nokubonga Nonyane, 8, was found dead after she disappeared from her home in Mahushu near Hazyview. United Democratic Movement Women’s Organisation secretary- general Thandi Nontenja said that a few months ago, it was reported that more than 2600 children were murdered in the country over the last three years, and 41% of rapes committed were against minors. @smashaba