When your boss is the people, you have to do the right job. This is how Tsepo Tshola, the musical extraordinaire, finds longevity in his work. “I think I have managed to stay relevant because I always think of the basics of loving my job and respecting what I am doing. That’s what keeps me going.” The Village Pope says having respect for the people that love his music is key to his own self motivation. Having been in the industry for decades, Tshola knows exactly how to feed an audience. For his performance on Friday night at the Birchwood Hotel and OR Tambo Conference Centre, he will make sure he pays what he owes.
“I don’t have the luxury of choosing an audience. For every person that comes to my show I believe I owe this person something for their attendance.” Tshola and his band will be on the Birchwood Comes Alive stage for a spectacular show that will see him take the audience down memory lane with songs from his various albums and his days with Sankomota. “It’s important to carry on for everybody that loves your music. It’s a continuous effort,” he said. To perfect his craft, he rehearses all the time. For the Birchwood event he has been spending quite a bit of time getting things together. “I started rehearsals for the programme. It never stops really, you don’t just say “hey guys, we have a gig, let’s go”. You have to respect what you do so every presentation is memorable to the people.” His musical catalogue spans some people’s lifetime, so he has never been able to single out one song as a favourite. From Papa, Now or Never and Stop The War with Sankomota to his own Akubutle and Ho Lokile, Tshola’s music has managed to stand the test of time. “A favourite song does not exist in my vocabulary. There are so many songs, I can’t choose one. I would rather make a whole show and make one package of all of them and say: What a show” not just what a song. That would undermine the power of my calling.” He wants tonight’s guests to be open to his musical presentation. “I can change the songs but I can’t change the performance. People have to expect the best of Tsepo Tshola at all times. That is my motto. I don’t ever do a show where I just go and perform with a second or third team. I don’t do that.” Tshola is working on releasing new music and rehearsing for a song and sermon movement that is coming soon. His advice to young, ambitious artists who want to get into the industry is: “Just be the best of you because everybody else has their own different talents so you need to give the best of what you’ve got.” The Birchwood Comes Alive jazz evening will feature the Music School of Gauteng Jazz Orchestra, singer Malik and comedian Sifiso Nene just before Tshola closes the night with his magic touch. As usual Hector Motivator will be the MC for the night. @mane_mpi