The music extravaganza, to be hosted at the Johannesburg Botanical Garden in Emmarentia on August 9, is centred on commemorating South African women through music. Lady Zamar will be performing alongside local favourites such as Sho Madjozi, Zonke and Mafikizolo. She said while many might oppose the continuous celebration of women, this was one of the many showcases to ensure the complete emancipation of women. “I feel that women are often misunderstood, or their roles within society always get lost in translation due to how we are undermined. “Getting the opportunity to celebrate one another is another achievement for women, as we are the pillars of society,” she added. Lady Zamar, who describes herself as a material feminist, believes in the equality of both men and women, while encouraging women to embrace their power. She feels society has become harsher towards women, leaving little room for them to excel. “We are battling our mothers, our grandmothers, their traditions, modernism, globalisation and men, among others. “It seems like we are only now discovering what being a woman means, and sometimes the many barriers make it so much harder for women to succeed,” she added. While she was growing up, she constantly faced challenges. “I grew up in the shadow of my older sister. She was always the slimmer and the more beautiful one, according to most people, while I was the nerd,” she said. Finding her voice came only after she realised she was breaking herself down. It was necessary to discover the strength within herself, she pointed out. “It was definitely a long journey” She also highlighted the challenges of being a woman in the music industry. “Sometimes there are advantages to it, but sometimes there aren’t. Advantage comes with the image, branding etc. “When it comes to shows, you often find yourself in a position where you are in the minority. “You are always looking at how to be a better performer than a guy in this industry. “The biggest thing that I would want this concert to achieve is strength. I want this concert to really bring forth the power of women as individuals, Lady Zamar said. “Just the pure strength of character and determination can make women stand out. “I think some of the hardest working artists in the industry are women, so having said all of that, I want to encourage everyone who will be on stage with me to give of their best. “If you did halfway shows (in the past), with this one, go the whole nine yards. “This is a platform where you can be unapologetic and 100% you.” Lady Zamar promises to celebrate who she is and where she comes from. “Being with my mother has really reminded me of my culture, and those attending can look forward to seeing me in all my African glory.” @AmandaMaliba