The announcement was made by Japanese ambassador to South Africa Shigeyuki Hiroki at his official residence in Pretoria. Hiroki said: “Mampho Brescia was selected by the government of Japan as a global citizen who uses social media platforms for the promotion of friendship and the deepening of understanding between Japan and South Africa.” He said Brescia was no stranger to Japan as she was selected as one of only two students to represent South Africa’s college fraternity in an exchange programme with a Japanese university. “Her two-year study and experience took place in Tokyo at the Soka University. “Returning to South Africa, she continued as a correspondent for a Japanese newspaper. “It is due to her great influence on her social media followers, her career status and knowledge of Japan and Japanese culture that she was chosen as the best ambassador to be a bridge between the two countries,” he said. Brescia said she was honoured that the government of Japan entrusted her with the responsibility of being the first brand ambassador. “I cannot wait to be the bridge between Japan and South Africa, not only from the political and business perspective, but also in the arts, education and entertainment. “Bridging these two faraway worlds has the potential to be dynamic and fruitful if they are unified,” she said. Brescia will set out on her duties on September 21 when she travels to Japan. Hiroki said the media personality would be accompanied by her best friend, actress Terry Pheto, for the 10-day visit to Japan. Pheto said: “We do everything together and I always said that if I were to travel to Japan, it would be with her.” Brescia said travelling with her best friend would make the trip more exciting. “She is my sanity and motivator, and I cannot wait to go to Japan with her.” Hiroki capped proceedings by presenting Brescia with a Global Citizen certificate. The ceremony also included a pre-departure reception for the 45 people who will go to Japan for the Japan Exchange and Teaching Programme. Hiroki said this year marked 21 years since the first South African group participated in the programme. He congratulated participants for making it out of 185 applications. The group departed for Japan on Saturday.