For many, listening to former US president Barack Obama - who was the main speaker - it was worth the many hours spent outside in the cold at the Wanderers Stadium in Joburg on Tuesday. Wearing a long white coat to ward off the chill, businesswoman Basetsana Kumalo said the Nelson Mandela Foundation had made the right choice to invite Obama to deliver the lecture, which left her inspired.      “He gave us a sense of hope for a new day. He told us that you need to work hard. Working as a collective, you can achieve a lot. He showed us we all have a role to play to make society, and the world, a better place,” she said. Media mogul and former actress Carol Bouwer was left impressed as well. She said it was important for her to listen to the first black American president talk about “our first black democratic president”.      “The world is in crisis now. Obama delivered the truth with his charisma and without offending anyone. I hope his speech will inspire world leaders to reflect on their leadership and find a Madiba in them. I was inspired,” she said. Bouwer noted that when Madiba came out of prison there was hope in the country. “I grew up in a four-room house. We dreamt of a South Africa with possibilities. The moment he came out, there was hope. I feel for many South Africans, our lives are better. We now have resources and we can be who want to be,” she said. The lecture, themed “Renewing the Mandela Legacy and Promoting Active Citizenship in a Changing World”, was attended by about 15000 people from South Africa and other countries. Andrea Vannucci from Florence, Italy said he decided to come to South Africa to attend the lecture because Mandela represented hope. “Our municipality in Florence has always supported Mandela. We believe he is an important man who tried to change the world. He fought for the liberation of this country. He had good values. “He fought against the system that oppressed the people. He is an icon. He represents hope and peace,” Vannucci said. Ahead of the lecture, singer and actress Mara Louw described Mandela as someone who represented peace and also touched many lives. “He touched a lot of us. It is a privilege to have known and performed for Tata. His legacy means so much to me. I can boast about the achievements I have because of him. He taught us to understand each other. He taught us about forgiveness and peace. He taught us patience and tolerance,” she said. Christo Brand, who was Mandela’s guard during his incarceration, also attended the annual lecture. Brand arrived on Robben Island in 1978, where he started working as a guard. At the time, Mandela had already been a political prisoner there for 16 years. When Mandela was later moved to Pollsmoor Prison, and then to the Victor Verster Prison, Brand was with him. Brand, who attended the lecture with his family, said he glad that Mandela was still being honoured. “I feel very happy that they’re still recognising Mandela. He was my prisoner for many years. I guarded him on Robben Island and at Pollsmoor, and to see all these people his presence will be felt. “He was a global icon and I hope young people can understand what he was fighting for, what he was struggling for and why he was in prison,” he added. @SthembisoMedia