Sifiso Nene’s rise in comedy came with a lot of hard work. He would hustle hard to get the money he needed to get on a bus from Durban to Johannesburg, just to be able to perform at an open mic session or an earlier slot before a big main act. “I would take a bus every week. Get on the morning bus that arrives in the afternoon at 3:30pm then perform around 8pm and take another bus on the same day back to Durban because I didn’t have anyone in Joburg that I knew. It was my situation but I was really passionate about doing comedy.” Fortunately for him the reality competition So You Think You’re Funny came his way in 2009 after two years of hustling. ‘When it came I was ready. I was working towards that dream of becoming a stand up comedian after receiving positive responses from the people, even though I was just doing five minute slots without any pay.” The 36-year-old is a full time comedian and started working professionally right after the reality show ended, with him coming out on top as the winner. “I believed in my funny. I remember I used to watch Pure Monate Show- when I saw David Kau, Joey Rasdien and the teamuse their style and writing ways with a comedic twist. That was my interest because stand up wasn’t that big around that time. I realised I actually think like these people and started writing my scripts hoping that one day they could be on TV.” He was fortunate enough to meet one of the Pure Monate guys comedian Ronnie Modimolle who read his scripts and advised him to use his writing for stand up shows rather. “I converted them and tested them on the audience and they seemed to work.” Since then his comedy has grown from strength to strength. “A lot of the time people who win reality shows disappear, so I’m grateful that I am still around and I still get cool bookings like the Birchwood gig. I used to be scared that I would disappear. But I have managed to stay relevant and funny.” He credits the fact that he has stuck to his guns throughout his career. “I never changed my ways and the hustle. I still have the hunger for it. I didn’t just win and sit back expecting gigs to land on my lap.” Nene said the perfect way to judge him would be to see his live shows. “That’s the only way you will figure out what my type of comedy is. People come to the shows for different reasons. I will continue to do it the way I know how, and if I get bookings it must mean all is well.” To experience his flavourful comedy, book a table for the Birchwood Come Alive jazz evening where Nene will warm the crowd before main headline act Tsepo Tshola and supporting act Malik mesmerise the audience. As usual Hector Motivator will be the MC and the Music School of Gauteng Jazz Orchestra will open the night. The event takes place on Friday. 