The Nairobi, Kenya-based singer and rapper uses music to uniquely speak to society. Getting into the industry was a journey she took on effortlessly. “In 2004, I was part of a duo. We put together our first concept in three months and we had all our friends who play instruments as our band members to help us organise a gig.” The drumming queen, whose real name is Muthoni Ndonga, has since released four projects, including the powerful concept album She. Her music is a cross between hip hop, soul/blues and reggae dance hall, and she lists her musical influences as Lauryn Hill, Missy Elliott, Jay Z and Kanye West. She manages to stand out from the crowd with her colourful hairstyles and dress sense that sees her combine artistic flair and culture all rolled up into a ball of energy.   Last week, she released the video for the song No More from the She project. “I think music videos are meant to be an additional layer of storytelling, as you can tell stories in lyrics but you can also tell stories in visuals, which you can’t do with lyrics. We see before we hear. So it’s really important to me. Creativity on videos can end up giving you something timeless and beautiful,” she said. Her stage name comes from her playing of the traditional Kenyan luo drums. “I have been playing the drums since high school. When I jokingly put the name on a poster with a picture of me playing the drums, my friends thought it was cool, and it stuck. It made sense at that time because I was just starting to put together my first full-length project, called The Human Condition, and my alter ego is a superhero character. So it made sense that my superhero was a drummer queen.” Ndonga was in the country recently for the Boiler Room x Ballantine’s Stay True Africa series, where she spoke about the challenges and opportunities for Africans musically. The 34-year-old is currently in the middle of a summer tour in Europe. In 2015, she collaborated with Khuli Chana on the song Baby Don’t Go. Right now, Ndonga is also looking to expand one of the festivals to South Africa. She is one of the founders of the Blankets and Wine music event that takes place in three East African countries and Africa Nouveau. She’s already started working on some new projects musically and hopes people get the “dopeness” out of her music. @mane_mpi