JOHANNESBURG-  Two years after alleged terror twins Brandon-Lee and Tony-Lee Thulsie were arrested, their matter is yet to go on trial after being postponed about 30 times. The identical twins were back in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Thursday morning where the matter was postponed yet again. They appeared briefly before Judge Raylene Keightley where she said that the matter would be postponed to allow the pre-trial process to continue. State prosecutor Chris Adams told the court that they were still waiting for evidence that would arrive electronically The twins appeared in court in black thobes (long robes worn by Muslim men) and white taqiyahs (short, rounded skullcaps) with shackles on their feet. Following the decision to postpone, the twins spoke briefly to two women from their family before returning to custody. The courtroom was filled with family members and members of the media. The Thulsie twins were arrested in raids in Newclare and Azaadville on the West Rand and put in custody in July 2016. They were charged with 12 counts relating to contraventions of the Protection of the Constitutional Democracy Against Terrorist and Related Activities Act and the 13th charge is for fraud, linked to the alleged use of fake passports. They were allegedly plotting a series of attacks on behalf of the Islamic State terrorist group against Jewish targets and the embassy of the United States of America (USA).  It is alleged that the twins were attempting to join militant Islamist group the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL, also known as ISIS) and that the terrorist activities would have been perpetrated by using firearms, explosives and possibly poisons. The attacks would have been directed at various embassies of countries including the United Kingdom, Russia, and USA based in Pretoria. Other targets listed included cartoonist Jonathan Shapiro (known as Zapiro), Jewish South African Investment Manager, Roy Topol, and King David High School Linksfield. The US froze their asset and imposed other sanctions on them. The Star tried to get a comment from the National Prosecuting Authority as to why the matter had been postponed so many times without it ever going to trial. However, spokeswoman, Phindi Mjonondwane, could not answer as she was unavailable on her phone. The matter will be back in court on October 10. @Chulu_M The Star