By “floss” I mean showing off and spending some quality time with it in a space where people could “ooh and aah” at the sleek design and chrome finish. Laptops come with the convenience of working anywhere you want to, and the Lenovo Yoga added even more flair with its “acrobatics”. The 720 machine is aesthetically pleasing with its aluminium design. I loved the fingerprint reader, which is the most convenient fingerprint screener by far.  Anyone who knows me knows I complain about that feature on phones because I often have to adjust my finger for it to recognise my print. The effortless touch on the Yoga was priceless. Even if you are a first-time user of a laptop, the Lenovo guides you through the set-up of your machine. In this instance I think of my mother who is new to the world of laptops and would feel instantly at ease knowing that she has an electronic friend guiding her through, step by step. As someone who had a really hard time opening up to internet payments and transfers, it’s nice to know that the Lenovo fingerprint allows for extra safety with the support of Windows Hello when making purchases with the laptop. If you didn’t know, it is called a Yoga laptop because of its flexibility. It flips over with its 360º hinges. This allows you to turn it into a tablet for easier use, or let it stand in tent mode to watch your favourite movies and videos without the hassle of moving it around when you change positions. ALSO READ: Action packed Nintendo Switch The 2-in-1 feature of tablet and laptop was a bit tricky for me because it didn’t give me that real tablet feel. I was always conscious of the keyboard at the back. The touch display is wonderful to use on the screen, which has great, colourful visuals. I have an older laptop at home, and the visuals on the 720 are really amazing in comparison. Granted, my laptop is a different brand and much older, but it was still super-exciting for me to take advantage of the features on the 720. These include the Windows 10 Home that comes with solid features and help from the digital assistant. As people’s lifestyles change to fit in with the more technological world we are living in, it’s good to know that the gadgets are also moving with the times, not only in appearance, but also in speed. The Lenovo Yoga 720 is available in platinum silver or iron grey. There is a reason the product won at the iF Product Design Awards last year. This one is definitely an investment to enjoy fully because of all its cool features. The Lenovo Yoga 720 costs R25900. @mane_mpi