The Sparks of Hope are individuals and organisations who work towards achieving peace, justice, healthcare and equality around the world. As part of the ongoing centenary celebrations, The Elders honoured Madiba's life through a walk, followed by a dialogue, at Constitution Hill in central Joburg. “What a wonderful few days we have had. On behalf of my fellow Elders, we would like to thank you for being part of the movement. You have shown you reject the siren songs of strong men and their small hearts. You have embraced hope, compassion and, most importantly, solidarity,” the chairperson of The Elders and former UN secretary-general, Kofi Annan, said. Under the theme #WalkTogether, representatives from various Sparks of Hope organisation all over the world walked side by side in honour of the late Struggle Icon. Annan embarked on a long walk around the Constitution Hill precinct, joined by Mandela's widow Graça Machel, his first granddaughter Ndileka, his former private secretary Zelda la Grange, former foreign minister of Algeria and UN diplomat Lakhdar Brahimi, former president of Ireland Mary Robinson and Virgin boss Richard Branson. The active Elders marked Mandela Day and urged the hundreds of Sparks of Hope activists to continue the fight for peace, justice, healthcare and equality. Annan said there were various ways to light a spark of hope and continue Madiba's long walk to freedom around the world. “Collectively, we are the sum of our parts; we are a movement, and when we speak with one voice, our call for justice cannot be ignored,” Annan said. Machel called on the next generations to follow in Mandela's footsteps by doing good and taking action. “For young people there is nothing that can limit your ability to take action and responsibility to build and transform the Africa you want. It is in your hands, take it, drive it, transform and as we did yesterday. Yes We Can,” Machel said. “The Sparks of Hope speak for themselves. It is exactly to bring the best of what people across the world are doing and practising. "It is a time for us to bring them together to amplify the space in which good and goodness takes the imagination of the millions of people. "On his 100th day we are so proud to recognise that, yes, we have selected 100 Sparks of Hope,” she added. For La Grange, Mandela Day was a bittersweet moment, "especially being among The Elders". “It's a huge honour to be here in Johannesburg with Mrs Graça Machel as well as to celebrate Madiba's birthday. It is a celebration, it is not a sad day, we remember him and all that he stood for. "It is a day for us to be reminded of the values and principles that he so hard fought for and sacrificed. This is the best way for us to get together and celebrate the humanity of Madiba,” La Grange said. “We should never forget Madiba’s legacy and strengthen it every year going forward and by drawing the public's attention to the things he stood for,” she added. Madiba founded The Elders on his birthday in 2007 at the historic Constitution Hill. Former president Thabo Mbeki, IFP leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi and the former president of Liberia, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, also took part in the historic walk. In 2009, the UN officially declared July 18 as Nelson Mandela International Day, to be celebrated annually the world over. @Zwane_2li2ls