Cape Town - Luthango Mlityalwa and Siya Ntshobane came to the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Summit to see how the company they work for can benefit from the technology. Mlityalwa has been working for the company for three years. “It’s important for us to learn about the new services and offerings to better use them. We want to be able to use the new tools to implement into our infrastructure.” The tech guys work for Clickatell, a global mobile messaging company. Ntshobane works in the network department that has not yet shifted to AWS. “People can be intimidated by the jargon but basically we are the people that work behind the scenes to make sure you connect to the access points needed to use your machines.” He said he wanted to really understand AWS and its offerings. “In this industry you really have to be interested in it to get into it. Technology is always evolving and changing. If you aren’t that kind of person, you will fall behind quickly.” The one-day summit is a space for businesses to explore various products and offerings from AWS and a chance for interaction with the experts in the field. The keynote address was given by various AWS experts and team leaders who showcased the uses of AWS with input from companies who are using the AWS products to strengthen their own platforms. Pick n Pay’s Andrew Mayes spoke about how they are staying relevant as a retailer in the digital age, while Aerobotics’ James Paterson spoke about how their company uses AWS products to provide solutions to farmers’ problems with pesticides and diseases using drone technology.      The Explore Data Science Academy is working on their own innovations and solutions to issues currently facing the world. Reitumetse Matlhare, a student at the academy said they were trying to predict the outcome of the Fifa World Cup using data from the teams and players through a machine running algorithms. Mike Clayville, VP for Worldwide Commercial Sales and Business Development at AWS said he was excited to be living in this era of technology. “We’ll look back on these times right now and recognise how important the things we are doing today are for the transformation of our industry, of our changing the human condition.” The summit had over 20 breakout sessions that focused on key technology trends including Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, AR and VR, the Internet of Things, Big Data and Analytics. The sessions will end at 5pm on Thursday afternoon. @mane_mpi