JOHANNESBURG - A taxi owner who allegedly had ‘no enemies’ was brazenly gunned down after leaving his association's meeting. An unknown man killed Nancefield Dube West Taxi Association  (Nanduwe)  association deputy chairperson, Sanele Maseko and fled immediately after the shooting on Thursday evening The shooting comes a week before the taxi association's elections in White City, Soweto. Soweto West spokesperson Captain Mpande Khoza said Maseko was shot by a man who immediately ran away after the shooting. "We were told that he was chairing a meeting of the executive who were preparing for an annual general election set to take place next week,” said Khoza. The motive for the killing is unknown. General secretary of the association, Dumisani Mpungose, said the 57 -year-old man was shot in front of other members who were still in shock. “We are not too sure what is the cause (of his shooting). Everything is in the hands of the police. We are still shocked like everybody,” said Mpungose. “We had a meeting with the entire executive in the afternoon and then we left at about 6:30pm. He was alone inside his car... So far we don't have any speculations on who might have done this,” he said. Mpungose described Maseko as a humble, quiet and caring person. “As far as we know, he had no enemies within the organisation. He was in the association for more than 35 years,” said Mpungose. South African National Taxi Council (Santaco) spokesperson Ralph Jones said the organisation condemned the shooting of taxi owners and urged that individuals in the industry should sit “together and talk”. “Differences that are happening out there cannot be resolved by a bullet. By shooting somebody you are depriving someone of a father and a husband. We are going to lose good people who are going to add value to the taxi industry. We are hoping that the police should do their work,” said Jones. "We don’t know where this comes from. It could be an internal or external matter. If we knew, we could curb these things before they happen,” Jones added. Police are still looking for the killer. The Star 