These were the opening words of Redi Tlhabi at the inaugural Marie Claire Power Summit. “For many of us, his legacy has opened so many doors and for many of us, his legacy is challenging in that it has put us in a position where we are asked what am I being called upon to do. “How can I be a positive influence in my society, how can I constantly get out of my comfort zone to make a difference in whichever small way with whatever small resources I have?” Tlhabi said at the summit about empowering, educating and equipping young women with the knowledge and power to take their careers and personal lives to the next level. Speakers for the day included colourful powerhouses from business, politics, entertainment and science. Publisher Jane Raphaely, who gave the opening keynote address, said because of amazing developments in communication, women were able to speak in a united voice instantly to everyone. “Now we have a possibility here today and what I would like to see is every day being women’s day, and there is only one sort of person who can make that happen. Every day a woman defines what she would like changed, she knows can be changed. She can argue it and demonstrate it.” Raphaely said that moment came in her life a long time ago. “Never ever give up. I am the proof that it works because what I have discovered in the various places I’ve worked is that time is the most precious thing that a woman has; you have to do in your time twice what somebody who you may be married to doesn’t have to do.”      Actress and brand ambassador Nomzamo Mbatha spoke against taking short cuts to success. “Dreaming has always been a verb for me. A doing word.” She said she was proud of her name, Nomzamo, as it was the description of the journey she had undertaken to get to where she was. “Because of the tragedies and the many transgressions I have had to go through in my life, from having to take care of my father who was HIV-positive, to not knowing how I was going to go to university having two bursaries laid at my feet. “Every single time I always knew I had no choice but to persevere. I had no choice but to ‘zama zama’. I remember the things that I have survived, and that keeps me moving. It reminds me of that needle that I need to keep shifting.” The event was also attended by a budding entrepreneur, Busi Mkhumbuzi, the student leader who programme-directed the Nelson Mandela Annual Lecture on Tuesday. Also in attendance were advertising executive Suhana Gordhan and business executive Phuti Mahanyele, who spoke on the role of women in the economy. ALSO READ: #Mandela100 Lindiwe Mazibuko says women should not be threatened by other women's success. Former DA MP Lindiwe Mazibuko spoke on the value of mentorship and shaping young leaders. She recently launched an academy aimed at nurturing and building the next generation of political leaders. “We want to train and support them with skills and connect them with leaders across political organisations who are serious about mentorship.” The summit also had panel discussions from award-winning actress Terry Pheto, radio DJ and media personality Tumi Voster and award-winning poet Koleka Putuma. @mane_mpi