Johannesburg - Police have explained the presence of a VIP protection unit at the culpable homicide case of former president Jacob Zuma’s son, Duduzane. National police spokesperson Brigadier Vish Naidoo dismissed speculation that the unit was dispatched to ferry Duduzane. “Duduzane used a private vehicle,” said Naidoo. He said the unit was at the Randburg Magistrate’s Court as part of the security personnel for the former president, who arrived to support his son. “People need to know that all former presidents are still protected and entitled to VIP protection, including Zuma,” said Naidoo. Although enjoying the protection of the crack unit, the former president remained in his vehicle as tempers flew after the brief appearance of Duduzane. Black First Land First (BLF) members got into a heated confrontation with lobby group AfriForum chief executive Kallie Kriel calling him “a settler and racist”. BLF members, including leader Andile Mngxitama, got angry when they saw Kriel talking to journalists following Zuma’s brief court appearance on Thursday. When Duduzane left the court, BLF members shoved journalists, blocking them from asking him questions. “Justice will finally be done,” said Kriel in between the insults hurled at him. It was only after AfriForum said they would privately prosecute Duduzane over the February 2014 accident which claimed the lives of two women that the National Prosecuting Authority brought the charges against him. Phumzile Dube died at the scene after he lost control and crashed his Porsche into a taxi. Another passenger Nanki Jeanette Mashaba died in hospital a few weeks later. “This is not a white country, it is a black country. Leave black people alone and go back to Europe,” BLF deputy president Zanele Lwana angrily told Kriel. “You are a f***** settler and coloniser here. You killed our ancestors. You killed our people you cannot talk for black people. You have no right to do that.” Kriel responded: “My schoolchildren don’t even behave like this I am not scared of you.” His words sparked even more anger and more insults. Kriel was accused of being a racist, murderer and land thief. BLF treasurer-general Thandiswa Yaphi said: “You steal from us you are talking s**t.” BLF reiterated that the last president of the apartheid regime should be imprisoned. Lwana said: “Arrest (FW) De Klerk. Why is De Klerk not in jail? De Klerk is in charge of the murders and massacres of our people. “What do we do instead? When De Klerk walks into Parliament at the inauguration of Cyril Ramaphosa, he gets a standing ovation from black leaders elected to push the interests of black people.” FW de Klerk Foundation spokesperson Megan Dick said they would not comment while Kriel said he would not give BLF legitimacy by opening a case against them. “The BLF survive on media attention and funding from the Guptas,” said Kriel. Lwana said the attacks on the Zuma family were “unfair and uncalled for”. Inside court, Duduzane appeared to be calm as he spoke to relatives in the gallery. After the case was postponed to August 23, he would not be drawn to comment. @smashaba  sibongile.mashaba@inl.co.za  The Star Receive IOL's top stories via Whatsapp by sending your name to 0745573535 .