For the first time, the City of Joburg has introduced a new night/day shift which will see the same number 
of Joburg metro police department (JMPD) officers on duty on both shifts. After years of complainants, junior JMPD officers’ cries for appropriate working hours have finally been heard. This week, the city’s member of the mayoral committee for public safety Michael Sun, MMC for corporate and shared services Ntombi Khumalo and chief of police David Tembe announced that a four-day-on and four-day-off system would be implemented effective from the beginning of this month. “We are making history. For many years, since as far back as 2002, our officers have been crying out for help in terms of a changed system. “We, the current administration, have finally listened after deliberations with labour. They (officers) deserve the rest as they work under extremely stressful conditions and to not get the rest, which affects their health,” said Khumalo. According to Khumalo, statistics show a lot of the officers who retire die within three years because of stress-related illnesses. “It’s very scary and unbelievable to think that for so many years this has been going on. "We are really proud to be sitting here announcing this. As much as they really do care for us and look 
after us, it is high time somebody actually looks after our officers,” he added, saying that they, too, mattered, and “we are willing to ensure that they work under favourable conditions.” Tembe thanked both MMCs for their contributions in making this life-changing decision and said it was "a step into a new millennium”. The officers used to work six to nine days without rest. The new system became operational from July 1. "From now on they will work two nights 6pm-6am and two days 6am-6pm, which includes a four-day-off period,” said Tembe. JMPD spokesperson Chief Superintendent Wayne Minnaar confirmed that previously, officers worked between 16 and 19 days with no off days. “Previously, officers would start work at 6am until 3pm, and then in the following week they would start a night shift from 3pm to 11pm,” said Minnaar. There are currently more than 1800 operational officers and 1500 officers in the JMPD training academy. Sun said it took years to get to the point of announcing a new shift because of deliberations with various stakeholders, but the city was proud that the decision was favourable to all JMPD officers. “Looking at a police service, these men and women subscribe to one thing, ‘comply and complain later’. As hard as the job may be, we have senior officers who also subscribe to 'comply and complain later'. For that reason, in a way, it is taken for granted that a lot of our officers accept this treatment,” said Sun. “It certainly hasn’t been an easy process, and it took a lot of consultation and discussions to find out what was the best route. We don’t have enough police resources in the city to give everybody enough time to go and rest - that would thin out the current officers that we have,” Sun added. @Zwane_2li2ls