Some believed our West African oil-rich brothers Nigeria were better suited for the affiliation. But South Africa's continuing strong role in BRICS will disappoint all the prophets of doom. Until South Africa became a member in 2010, BRIC was the acronym for the grouping of Brazil, Russia, India and China. Interestingly, leading the charge against the move for South Africa's inclusion into the BRIC bloc was the man who first coined the term "BRIC" in 2003, Jim O’Neill of Goldman Sachs, an international finance and investment firm. O’Neill (speaking to the Mail & Guardian in 2012) felt South Africa's inclusion in BRICS had weakened the group's power. His comments were probably strengthened by the country's weak economic growth and outlook at the time. Although it could not be expected that South Africa's inclusion would have automatically improved the country's economic performance overnight, nor would it immediately address the country's economic challenges, which are mainly structural, South Africa’s membership at BRICS has certainly changed the country's position in global politics. South Africa's inclusion was not a favour extended to Pretoria by the four countries that were initially part of the group. The invitation to South Africa was a show of confidence in Africa's largest economy and the realisation of the importance of South Africa not only in Africa but on the global stage. It was a strategic move by the BRIC bloc, a move that was not only going to benefit South Africa but would ensure BRIC nations have a footprint in Africa as a whole, considering the influence of South Africa on the continent. This is what critics of South Africa's inclusion in BRIC failed to see. Before the invitation for South Africa to join BRIC, there was already an appreciation among many countries, particularly in the West, that the power and significance of the grouping could not be ignored. There is no doubt that South Africa's joining of BRICS further cemented the grouping's global political and economic influence, and perhaps some felt intimidated by this new reality. Professor Wang Yong, in his 2012 Economic Diplomacy Programme paper titled South Africa’s Role in BRICS and the G20, summed up South Africa's unique role in BRICS when he wrote: “South Africa is in a position to make unique contributions, particularly in terms of development of the BRICS Africa agenda, promoting global economic governance reforms, and institution of BRICS as a credible international organisation." The five BRICS countries account for 40% of the world's population, and as of this year, their combined nominal gross domestic product amounted to $18.6trillion (about R240trillion), or around 23% of the world's GDP. Trade between the five countries has doubled in seven years, ballooning from R203bn in 2010 to R462bn last year. South Africa’s membership of BRICS also gallops towards the realisation of the country's National Development Plan (NDP) mandate of eliminating poverty and the reduction of inequality by 2030. This is aligned with BRICS' five pillars of priority. Investment deals between South Africa and the BRICS partners has reached fever pitch, with China leading the way. Several Chinese billion-dollar firms have headed south in recent times. Among them are mobile and green-energy companies such as Hisense, FAW, Beijing Automobile International Corporation and China Longyuan Power Group. A PwC report recently showed that bilateral trade between South Africa and India grew by 400% between 2004 and 2014. According to the report, the investment deals were in the environmental, financial services, mining, pharmaceuticals, automotive and information technology sectors. All of this could mean one thing - the much-needed job creation. According to the PwC report, the R50bn in investments came with 18000 jobs in tow. And that’s not all. Russia’s corporate world raised its hand in June when its rail rolling stock manufacturer Transmashholding (TMH) announced it would be setting up operations in Boksburg. The 45000m² centre will see a R500m rail manufacturing centre being set up. Efforts to revive the country's frail economy will take more than just being a member of BRICS, but there is no doubt that these partnerships and investments that come with BRICS membership will go a long way, turning South Africa's fortunes around. The country's turnaround will also be bolstered by President Cyril Ramaphosa's ambitious plans for the economy. In April, Ramaphosa set an ambitious target of attracting a staggering $100bn in investment over the next five years. So determined was he to meet this target that he assembled a formidable quartet of investment envoys who will travel the globe in search of investors with deep pockets. In the team are former finance minister Trevor Manuel, former deputy finance minister Mcebisi Jonas, businesswoman Phumzile Langeni as well as retired banker Jacko Maree. Economist Trudi Makhaya joins the team in her capacity as Ramaphosa's economic adviser. The bold plan is within reach, according to Professor Anil Sooklal, South Africa's ambassador to BRICS, who believes the target is “modest” and achievable. Barely a year into the project, Ramaphosa's target appears well on course. Early this month, Saudi Arabia vowed to plough R10bn into the South African economy. The pledge was made by Saudi King Salman bin Abdulaziz al Saud during a state visit. The new South Africa is a mere 24 years old. If it were a human being, it would ideally be just starting its life in employment. Despite the continued regression in economic growth, the country continues to be the bridge connecting the continent, which has for years remained the poorest despite its mineral wealth. For now, the continent can pin its hopes on South Africa's membership of BRICS and the G20 to ensure its voice is heard loudly and clearly on the global stage. - SAnews.gov.za