Johannesburg - The woman who got Twitter tongues wagging by alleged to have seen a sex tape involving the husband of a well-known media mogul with a younger rapper will be appearing in court on Thursday morning. Although Jackie Phamotse - author of the book Bare - did not mention any name in the tweet, social media users threw Basetsana and Romeo Kumalo's names into the mix. She is now facing a charge of crimen injuria and will be appearing at the Randburg Magistrate's Court after the Kumalos opened the case against her. The matter was first heard on July 4 but was postponed to July 26 for further investigations. Last month, Phamotse spoke to The Star about the matter for the first time. She said associates of the female media mogul married to the businessman had since contacted her and offered her money in order to stop the video leaking to the media. “First of all the person who owns the rights to the video is a young girl and does not want to distribute the video and does not want to negotiate any price for it,” said Phamotse. The author set social media abuzz when she tweeted: “Just overheard a painful conversation, a Female TV mogul...Pleading with one of my girls to not share videos of her drunk and her husband rim**ng a celebrity boy!!!!!!!!! What the hell!!!! Kanti what kind of marriages do we have now!!! I have asked to see this video (sic).” She claimed that an associate of the couple had phoned and accused her of getting involved in a private matter. However, Phamotse said she had no regrets about going public about the video. “The friends of the associate, a couple if I could call them that, said to me it is not up to me to disclose what they do in their private space. My response to that is that I stand for young people and when I see young people get exploited, I want to find solutions to their problems hence I spoke about it and introduced it to the public. They were trying to conceal the whole issue and trying to find out how much were we trying to negotiate for the video if we want to negotiate before it gets to the media,” said Phamotse. She said her only worry related to young people being sexually abused by older powerful men. “We want to combat social ills, so people’s reputation has nothing to do with us,” said Phamotse. Follow @TheStar_News @ReporterStar for live updates during court proceedings. @SthembisoMedia The Star