Police have confirmed that Mbatha opened a case of intimidation against Maepa for an alleged violent incident which occurred on July 19 during the delegate registration process at the Tshwane Events Centre prior to the Gauteng ANC provincial conference. Maepa is accused of threatening to shoot and kill Mbatha, as well as allegedly swearing at her in front of other party members in a case which could cause fissures within the newly elected regional leadership. An internal document written by Mbatha and sent to the Gauteng ANC Women’s League (ANCWL) laid bare her allegations against the chairperson, in which the treasurer pleads with the women's leadership to protect her “from this abusive man (Maepa)”. Mbatha in her letter, which The Star has seen, raised concerns regarding the apparent invalid registration of a voting delegate, whose name is known to The Star, for the party’s provincial conference. Mbatha wrote that Maepa said he had the right to put the member in question forward as a voting delegate, as the party official would attend the provincial conference as the regional executive committee’s candidate to be elected a provincial executive committee (PEC) member. Mbatha alleged that Maepa dismissed her rudely while screaming at her, including using a Sesotho expletive and calling the treasurer a “stupid woman”. Maepa returned to confront Mbatha again regarding the contentious voting delegate issue, the treasurer added, saying the chairperson then launched into a violent tirade. “He (Maepa) then told me that he is very rude and he can also insult people, that he has guns in his boot, because he has lots of money. "And that he will shoot and kill me, then buy the SAPS, because he has (a lot) of money and that case will vanish. I told him that I’m not scared of him,” Mbatha charged. On Friday, Mbatha confirmed writing the letter and opening the case, but said she didn’t want to comment further as it was an internal issue. Police spokesperson Captain Mavela Masondo confirmed that a case of intimidation had been opened at the Pretoria West police station. No arrest has been made and investigations are continuing. But Maepa dismissed claims of him threatening Mbatha with violence, saying he didn’t even own a gun and he wouldn’t be in a position to shoot anyone. “I am not aware of a case of abuse against me. I know Ms Simphiwe Mbatha, and I have never attempted to abuse her in any way whatsoever,” Maepa asserted. He conceded that he had spoken to Mbatha regarding the invalid registration of a Tshwane delegate. But Maepa contended it was a non-issue because the provincial conference had accepted the delegate’s credentials, and ended up electing her to the PEC. “There are people who want to make something out of nothing,” Maepa said. Jacqui Mofokeng, provincial spokesperson for the ANCWL, acknowledged they had received Mbatha’s letter and that they were backing her. The Star