The forum will be held at the Westin Hotel in Cape Town over two days from July 18. At least 120 delegates from key media houses across South Africa, China and other African countries are expected to attend the forum under the theme: BRICS Media Co-operation - Fostering an Inclusive, Just World Order. Survé said the roles of both BRICS and the BRICS Business Council “in carving out a better future for almost half of the world should not be underestimated, and the media has an opportunity to be part of the journey”. “We cannot emphasise enough how important the media is in changing the narrative of the work BRICS countries are doing. There are stories that need to be told, of how alliances and partnerships are being forged to invest across borders, not only in BRICS but also into Africa,” Survé said. “Stories of how building a road, a bridge or a railway line can change the destiny of people. It creates opportunities for foreign direct investments which, in turn, translate into jobs. Reporting on these developments in an unbiased, factual way can help change the way we are viewed.” Minister of Communication Nomvula Mokonyane and Wang Xiaohui, deputy head of publicity for the Communist Party of China's (CPC) Central Committee, are the guest speakers. Topics to be discussed at the forum include Strengthening the BRICS narrative: media's role and responsibility, and Imagining a shared global future forged by constructive and development journalism: seeking ways to enhance co-operation among the new media in BRICS countries. The forum is held in tandem with South Africa hosting this year's BRICS Summit and the BRICS Business Council. The media forum was hosted by China last year. Delegates are expected from the Xinhua News Agency, People's Daily, China Daily, China.org, Chinanet, China Central TV and the Shanghai United Media Group. The Russian contingent includes representatives from Russia Today TV, TV BRICS, Sputnik News Agency and Radio, the TASS Russian News Agency and Rossiyskaya Gazeta. Indian media houses are sending delegates from The Hindu, India Today, The Indian Express, ABP News Network and Indo-Asian News Service. Brazilian media houses CMG Group, Correio Braziliense, Valor Econômico and Monitor Mercantil will also attend. South African media houses include Independent Media, Media24, Mail & Guardian, SABC, Tiso Blackstar and the African News Agency. In an exciting development, the BRICS Business Council said media representatives from Swaziland, Namibia, Zambia, Tanzania, Kenya, Malawi, Uganda, Liberia and Ghana would also be in attendance. Heads and students of journalism and media faculties from several universities including, Rhodes, University of the Witwatersrand, Stellenbosch, University of the Western Cape and University of Cape Town, have been invited as observers. The public has been invited to a joint photographic exhibition at the Cape Town International Convention Centre to view more than 120 images that resonate with the conference theme from noon on July 18. @smashaba The Star