BERLIN- For as long as she can remember Ipeleng Kgatla has always wanted to be a performer. She wanted to stand in front of people and serenade them with her beautiful soprano voice. Kgatla from Tembisa, joined her local church choir and realising she was good at singing decided to take a chance and study opera - an artform she knew very little about. Now, that choice to take a leap of faith is paying off for her. After completing six years of studying in South African universities, she is for the next two years studying for her Master of Music- Konzert Lied at the Staatliche Hochschule für Musik und Darstellende Kunst Mannheim,  a university for music and performing arts in Germany. This, Kgatla said, is another dream come true for her as she has always wanted to study opera in Europe - where the music originates. “Opera is a European artform and I wanted to learn from European teachers. South Africa has great teachers but I also wanted the experience of singing the music in it’s own home and environment. I also want to learn how differently they do things from us,” she says Kgatla admits her musical world started opening up when she began her studies at the Tshwane University of Technology (TUT) for a BTech in Vocal Arts. “It was a whole new world for me. Before, I always sang in a choir and never as a soloist. At first the course was hard for me because I didn’t have the Opera background. It then became amazing what my voice could achieve from training,” the soprano says. While studying she also sang with the Gauteng Choristers to improve her craft. When she finished her studies at TUT, she felt she was not ready to start working as a performer and decided to further her studies at the University of Cape Town. “I felt I was not ready to for the big roles. I felt I needed more stage experience and to work on my voice and technique a bit more.With opera it doesn’t take three years to grasp technique. It takes years and years to perfect your technique and even people in big opera houses are still taking lessons. “Now I just want to see what Europe and the European teachers can give me to improve my technique and use my voice better,” she says. While completing her Honours in Music Performance at the University of Cape Town last year, she got a chance to perform in France for two months. She was part of the Celestial 12 and as chorus members in Opera de Lille’s production of  Mozart’s Cosi fan tutte from September to October. “It was my first time working overseas and I learnt a lot. I had the chance to see how things work in big theatres. The trip also made me feel like my dream to be an opera singer is achievable,” Kgatla recalls. When she received the opportunity to study in Germany, she grabbed it with both hands but she admits it has not all been easy. “Eighty percent of my classes are in German and I am still learning the language so that has been hard. Everyday I try and learn as much as I can but it's a challenge and a great experience at the same time,” she says. Despite the challenges, Kgatla admits that she achieved a few great highs for her career. On July 14, she sang the Samoan national anthem when the island country played against Germany in the qualifiers for the 2019 Rugby World Cup in Heidelberg (German Heidelberg not Johannesburg) . Kgatla only had four days to learn and master The Banner of Freedom [Samoan national anthem]. “My professor called me and asked if I would be interested singing the Samoan national anthem at the game and I immediately agreed. I had to look for videos on YouTube so I could get the pronunciation of the words right and learn it as soon as possible. It was so important for me to get it right. Once I finished singing everyone was happy so I was very relieved,” Kgatla said. While continuing with her studies in Manheim, she aims to improve her singing so she can one day play at big venues like La Scala in Italy and the Metropolitan Opera House in New York. “ I want my career to get to a point where I can perform for big opera house like La Scala and the Met.”