Johannesburg - Striking Gautrain workers had a stun grenade thrown at them after they successfully prevented a Gautrain bus from leaving the Midrand depot. About 100 members of the United National Transport Union (Untu) working for the Bombela Operating Company (BOC), the operator of the Gautrain, started striking at midnight over a wage dispute with BOC. Gautrain released a statement on Twitter on Monday morning saying the workers were preventing buses from exiting the depot. “As such buses scheduled to service the airport service as well as Centurion, Sandton and Park stations have been delayed,” said the tweet. Untu Secretary General Steve Harris denied that they were prohibiting buses from leaving. About 30 minutes later, UNTU workers stood in the road to block a bus that was attempting to leave the depot. The workers stood in the road singing and dancing while others sat in camping chairs to prevent the bus from driving through. The bus then started reversing back into the depot which caused the crowd to cheer and clap their hands. While they cheered the police throw a stun grenade into the road to scatter them. Outraged by the stun grenade, the workers began singing Senzeni Na (What have we done) while they sat down in the road. Untu Secretary General Steve Harris said Untu and BOC reached a deadlock in negotiations which started in April. The employees are demanding a 10% salary increase, R1 600 for a housing allowance, R800 for transport or staff card usage for office workers, night shift allowance to be increased by 10% and R20 000 for all employees as a bonus incentive. The BOC has offered an 8.5% increase in salaries and all benefits. Untu rejected the offer. “One of the crucial issues is that the employees want to share the profits. The company is not willing to share their financial statements. It makes the employees upset because they don’t know what profits the companies are making,” said Harris. Harris said the strike was likely to continue until Tuesday. @Chulu_M The Star