From now on, every charitable thing they do, learn, say, give and buy will be judged on a point system that could earn them tickets to the Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100. Taking place for the first time in Africa, the event is set to be like no other, with the main headline act being Queen Bey herself, Beyoncé Knowles. Hugh Evans, founder of Global Citizen, a movement of engaged citizens who are using their collective voice to end extreme poverty by 2030, said he was inspired by the Mandela centenary initiatives.      “Mandela dedicated his life to the eradication of poverty and the end of apartheid. Like all of you he inspired me so deeply, so Global Citizen has committed this year to honour his legacy in the year he would have turned 100. This is the festival that Mandela deserved.” Evans was speaking on a panel which included Patrice Motsepe, Dr Precious Moloi-Motsepe, Energy Minister Jeff Radebe, supermodel Naomi Campbell, Tsonga artist Sho Madjozi, Nigerian superstar Tiwa Savage, and filmmaker Kweku Mandela Amuah. READY FOR CHALLENGE: Tiwa Savage is ready to take on #GlobalCitizen initiatives. Picture: Nhlanhla Phillips/ANA The festival, which will take place on December 2 at the FNB Stadium, is free to all - with certain conditions. “Mandela said poverty is not natural and can be overcome and eradicated by the actions of human beings, that’s why Global Citizen focuses on actions, because we believe actions should be the currency of everything we do. The tickets are free in exchange for your actions which will earn you points for everything you have participated in over the next six months in the lead-up to the festival,” Evans said. He explained that the aim was to spread the message of hope and help. By signing up on the Global Citizen website, participants will be able to learn more about how they can earn the points to gain a ticket. ALSO READ: Beyonce headlines Global Citizen Festival “First thing is to recruit all your friends and family; for every person you will earn one point. Then from August 21 the action journey will kick in. Each participant will have to do two types of actions - grassroots and systemic actions.” GIVING BACK: Naomi Campbell is one of the producers and co-hosts for the Global Citizen Festival. Picture: Nhlanhla Phillips/ANA These actions included ways to get local governments to live up to their promises and for people to get into community work. There will also be ticket draws for organisations that have already been doing community work and outreach. “We are partnering with the UN and working to ensure there is accountability around the Sustainable Development Goals. These are 17 goals and 169 indicators agreed upon by world leaders to eradicate poverty and tackle injustice and climate change. These goals represent the roadmap for the future. December 2 will mark the most significant event Global Citizen has ever produced,” he said. The line-up will include international acts Jay-Z, Pharrell Williams, Chris Martin, Ed Sheeran, Eddie Vedder and Usher, as well as African stars Tiwa Savage, D’Banj, Femi Kuti, Wizkid, Cassper Nyovest and Sho Madjozi. The line-up for the hosting duties is also impressive, with the likes of Oprah Winfrey, Sir Bob Geldof, Gayle King, Tyler Perry, Forest Whitaker, Naomi Campbell and South Africa’s own Bonang Matheba.      “South Africa holds a very special place in my heart. Madiba was a man whose values and wisdom have left a lasting imprint on the world. I’m invested in the Global Citizen movement to end extreme poverty and this is a goal that I believe should be achievable and it's imperative that we reach it,” said Campbell. The festival will be the culmination of a six-month-long campaign engaging Global Citizens on seven goals: poverty; hunger; health; education; girls and women; water and sanitation; and life below water.      “Mandela said overcoming  poverty is not a gesture of charity, it is an act of justice. That’s why Global Citizen focuses on systemic change, not just traditional philanthropy. Sometimes it falls upon a generation to be great, and you can be that generation. I believe we need greatness now more than ever We need a compass that says we can be better,” said Evans. Kweku Mandela Amuah, grandson of the late icon, came up with the idea to approach Evans to bring the festival to South Africa. “I felt the need to galvanise younger people to realise the potential they have to be part of this cause. We can’t call ourselves global if we don’t have a global presence. It’s a huge opportunity to not only come to a concert but to actively participate in lifting some of the world’s most vulnerable out of a situation and giving them basic human rights,” he said. @mane_mpi