Johannesburg - Another taxi owner was shot dead at his home on Monday, this time in Alexandra. This death is allegedly related to the continuing turf war over the Mall of Africa route war between the Alexandra Taxi Association (ATA) and Alexandra, Randburg, Midrand Sandton Taxi Association (ARMSTA). There has been high incidences of violences between the two rival associations over this particular route. The conflict between ATA and ARMSA even ended in court and the ruling was in favour of ARMSA but ATA allegedly continued to use the route. Gauteng police spokesperson Colonel Lungelo Dlamini confirmed that the incident happened when the taxi owner was reversing out of his yard on Monday morning at 09:30 on Vasco Da Gama street. The owner was allegedly on his way to work. “He was shot several times and died at the scene. At this stage we don’t know the motive for the shooting,” he said. No arrests have been made and a case of murder was being investigated. Dlamini and the National Taxi Alliance (NTA) confirmed that the victim was a member of ARMSTA. The National Association Alliance spokesperson Theo Malele said they were urging law enforcement authorities to step in and do their job. “As an industry, we can always encourage dialogue in incidences of conflict but once a murder has been committed, it then becomes an act of crime and therefore the police must step in and bring the perpetrators to book,” he said. Malele could not confirm if the murder was related to the turf war between ATA and ARMSTA. He, however, emphasised that the majority of taxi violence incidents were because of internal conflicts in associations and also external conflicts because of routes. “This is the only black-owned business. Are we then saying to people that we as Africans are unable to solve our problems through dialogue?,” said Malele. “We are actually killing our business. We’re chasing our commuters away and we are also threatening our potential funders” He said if these incidents persist, no one will want to invest in the taxi industry because it is volatile. This latest incident comes days after 17 people associated with the Ivory-Park Taxi Association in Gauteng were attacked while travelling back to Joburg in a taxi after a funeral in KwaZulu-Natal @Chulu_M The Star