“Even though we come from diverse backgrounds, we have a common ground, something that binds us together as South Africans, and that is our unique heritage background,” said Miss Heritage Global president Nhlanhla Shabangu. The launch took place at the Mangwanani African Spa at River Valley, Hartbeespoort, where the finalists were being introduced to the media. “Miss Heritage SA is a national asset and it coincides with Heritage Month. The mission is to foster social cohesion among different racial groups and cultural groups. "One of the things we are cognisant of is that South Africa is a homogeneous country where we look at it as a melting pot of all cultural groups, and we are giving a platform to young ladies from these diverse backgrounds to become ambassadors of their own cultures where they can wax lyrical about what makes their culture unique, and taking pride in it and not having one culture dominate another but rather learning from each other.” Shabangu added that Mangwanani was the perfect place to host the soothing and therapeutic launch as they shared the same values as his brand. “From the location to the experience; everything they do is indigenous to South Africa. From their ointments to their treatments; their outlook speaks to what we are all about.” Seven of the 18 finalists were introduced at the event on Monday. One, Mokgadi Mthimkulu, from Sasolburg, Free State, said being part of the brand would enable her to help other women. “I am a person with a lot of self-confidence and I have what it takes to be an ambassador for Miss Heritage. I want this to open doors for me where I can help young ladies thrive. "I want women, from a young age, to truly know who they are so they can make this world a better place to live in.” Mthimkulu is from a mixed background. “I'm originally Zulu but grew up Sotho. On this journey I want to know more of where I come from and being a true Zulu woman. I love all cultures. South Africa is a Rainbow Nation and we're lucky to be able to embrace all our cultures openly and learn from one another.” Promise Matlaletsa, 24, also from the Free State, wants to use this platform for her initiative to campaign for people living with albinism. “I want to start a campaign that protects them and makes them feel welcomed and be treated like human beings. With regard to heritage, I thought about my roots, where I come from and who I can be, because being you expresses the inner you. It makes you think and want to explore more.” Shabangu said there would be other introductions until the main event in Durban on September 23. @mane_mpi