Brian Mangwale had appealed against his conviction and sentence, but this was dismissed by a full bench (three judges) of the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria. In 2011, he was found guilty of kidnapping and murdering Masego, whose body parts were ripped out. His trial made headlines due to the brutality of the killing, and the court was told that Masego’s uterus and other body parts had been ripped out, presumably while she was still alive. These were apparently sold to a sangoma, identified only as Jan, for muti. Mangwale, who pleaded not guilty, made three statements - two to the police and one to a magistrate - confessing to his part in the killing. However, he said he was told by the police what to say and claimed he was severely assaulted. The three statements all differed. In one statement, he said he, with the help of others, ripped out body parts while Masego was alive. In another, he said he was present when a sangoma tore out the body parts, including the child’s uterus. A statement he made before a magistrate was accepted by the court. In it, he said he was assisted by others to remove the body parts. Judge Sulet Potterill, who wrote the judgment regarding his appeal, said although he had made three confessions, they all told the same story. “It just differs as to whether he did the act of stabbing or was just present when the stabbing of Masego was done.” She and the two judges sitting with her were satisfied that the confessions and pointings-out of the murder scene were admissible, she said. Mangwale, who grinned at the crowd in court while he was sentenced, earlier described how he wrapped the child’s organs in a plastic bag, which he hid in bushes. The child was missing for eight days and was discovered only after an intensive search by the police and local residents - Mangwale even joined the search. A teenager testified during the trial that he had seen Masego being gang-raped on the night of December 31, 2009, but the court did not make a finding regarding the rape as the teenager’s evidence had shortcomings. Also, a post-mortem report could not shed light on this as the girl’s body was badly decomposed and she had hardly any organs left. Masego disappeared on the morning of December 31, 2009 after Mangwale sent her to a shop to buy a cooldrink. In one of his confessions, he said Jan, a witchdoctor, asked him to find a girl younger than 12, who was not sexually active, as he wanted to use her body parts. He said he kidnapped the child and stabbed her, using the same knife to remove her body parts. In another confession, he claimed he was merely present when Jan removed the parts. Judge Potterill said this did not matter, as the State had proved beyond doubt that he played a part in the killing. She remarked that neither little Masego nor her mother could have foreseen that on the last day of 2009 (December 31) when she asked to go and play at a friend’s house, it would be the last day of her life. “She suffered a horrific death,” the judge said.