The DA announced its list of nominees for the positions of premiers in eight provinces on Sunday, ahead of its 2019 election campaign. The names of those who will be battling it out for the position in the Western Cape include: Fazloodien Abrahams, Bonginkosi Madikizela, David Maynier, Kelly Baloyi, Jacobus MacFarlane, Alan Winde and Michael Mack. ANC leader in Cape Town Xolani Sotashe said the DA had already decided on Alan Winde to take over from Premier Helen Zille. Winde is MEC for Economic Opportunities. “It's just a formality, especially in the Western Cape. We know that white liberals in the party have resolved that Alan Winde is going to be the premier candidate for the Western Cape. “It is unfortunate that our fellow brothers and sisters in the DA only have to go and get votes for the DA. "The white liberals are brought to the fore, and that is how the DA operates, and it will never change,” Sotashe said. At the last provincial elections the DA retained control by winning 59.4% of the vote. The ANC came in second with 32.9% of the ballots cast, followed by the EFF's 2.11%. During the re-election of Zille in 2014, the DA leader received 27 votes, easily beating the 14 votes for ANC provincial leader Marius Fransman, with one spoilt ballot. Sotashe said the ANC was now working towards regaining the trust of the people, and was welcoming members who had quit the DA. “There are black intellectuals who are leaving the DA. It speaks volumes that not all is well in the DA. "(DA leader Mmusi) Mai- mane is next, (though) they might agree with him for now so that he will be the face of their campaign for next year. "We know that immediately after the elections they will be coming for him,” Sotashe said. Meanwhile, Madikizela, the DA's provincial leader, said he was the right person for the job. “I think I am one of the people who can certainly ensure that we continue the good work that we have been doing in overcoming many challenges,” he said. When asked whether he would be able to fill Zille's shoes, Madikizela jokingly stated that “she wears dirty shoes, I don't think I would want to fill those". Madikizela said that if he were elected as the premier, he would give special attention to unemployment, poverty and inequality in the Western Cape. “I must say that we have done much better than other provinces, but these problems still persist. In the province there are a number of social ills we need to tackle. "We do know that the issue of crime and gangsterism is a major issue in the Western Cape. Whoever takes over from Helen must work very hard,” he said. The nominees will appear before selection panels in their provinces for final candidates to be chosen. The Star