Before the internationally acclaimed Black Coffee closed off the night with his magic music touch, the Axe Movers shook things up with performances throughout the night. The exclusive event was held at the hip Fox Junction in Joburg. Guests included celebrities, media and the lucky winners. The latter got to spend the night with their favourite personalities, who are changing things in the creative and music industry. The party is part of the “Find Your Magic” campaign that sees the 35-year-old AXE brand take on ambassadors who have risen to the heights of their talent. The “Axe Makers” are presenter and artist Zulu Mkhathini, dancer and TV presenter Bontle Modiselle, fashion designer Rich Mnisi, hip-hop artist Nasty C, house duo Distruction Boyz, producer Benny Maverick and Kutloano “Da Kruk” Nhlapo, who won the Find Your Magic competition last year and travelled to Ibiza, Spain, with Black Coffee. The AXE brand has revolutionised the deodorant by changing stereotypes and views on masculinity. In 2016, the Find Your Magic campaign launched with the aim to celebrate individuality and original style. This year, the campaign shook things up with the addition of Modiselle who, over the past few months has been working with dancers, and they showcased their moves at the main event on Wednesday night. Nasty C performed some of his hits and new music, while Mnisi and Black Coffee showcased their talent, while Mkhathini hosted the event. They performed alongside Durban’s finest, DJ Tira. Maverick, the producer behind two of the biggest summer hits - Memeza and Omunye - said he finds his magic in creating music. “I love house music and I’ve always loved dance music. From a very young age I started going to clubs and parties, but it was never enough for me to just listen to other people’s music. “I had to start creating my own music. My passion lies there.” Maverick said he was motivated by people like Black Coffee. “I look at him on a daily basis on social media and he has paved the way for us internationally. We are now making music and working harder to reach the levels he is at, and beyond That’s where the magic is,” he said. He advised those looking to make a name for themselves in the industry to always remember that it was up to them to make it work. “No one owes you anything, get up and work “If somebody is not doing it for you, go and do it yourself. There’s nobody who can do something for you better than you can do it for yourself.” Black Coffee, whose real name is Nkosinathi Maphumulo, ended the night with a bang, performing his new Master Mix live on stage. @mane_mpi 