Johannesburg - Former president Jacob Zuma's son Duduzane was ready to appear in court on a charge of culpable homicide as well as bribery allegations related to state capture, and has not been evading the law, his lawyer Rudi Krause told Independent Media on Sunday night. On Monday morning, Duduzane was set to appear before the Commercial Crime Court in Joburg in connection with his alleged involvement in the bribery attempts by the Guptas to former deputy finance minister Mcebisi Jonas in 2016. On Thursday, Duduzane is scheduled to appear in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on a separate culpable homicide charge relating to a February 2014 motor vehicle accident. Krause said his client was ready for both appearances. “We going to apply for bail. They claim to have a warrant for his arrest, which they want to execute,” he said. Krause said Zuma had not been running away from the authorities. “There was a summons issued for him to appear in court on Thursday on a charge of culpable homicide resulting from a motor vehicle accident. "The correspondence with the prosecuting authority in that regard has always been that after they issued a summons, he was going to appear,” he said. “There was just no way he was not going to appear. It is wrong to suggest that he was avoiding or evading anything,” he added. According to Jonas, the older Gupta brother, Ajay, told him that they planned to make him the new finance minister in exchange for his working for the brothers. Jonas also alleged - in the presence of Duduzane and businessman Fana Hlongwane - that he was offered R600000 in cash and R600million which would later be deposited into his bank account if he accepted the offer. On Sunday, Hawks spokesperson Hangwani Mulaudzi said the elite crime-fighting unit would divulge details about the case today. “We will not speak on the matter until tomorrow. Wait for tomorrow,” Mulaudzi said. Most of Jonas's allegations relating to the incident, which took place in Rosebank, Joburg, are contained in the Public Protector's State of Capture report, which also detailed that Ajay had allegedly told Jonas that the Gupta family had made Duduzane a billionaire. The Guptas have been accused of using their close ties to then president Zuma to influence cabinet appointments and loot state coffers by co-opting senior politicians and public servants, both in the departments and state-owned entities, including Eskom and Transnet. At the heart of the Guptas' alleged plans with Jonas's appointment was the capture of the Treasury, which they allegedly described as problematic and a hindrance to their plan of doing business with the state. Jonas reportedly declined the ministerial offer, and Des van Rooyen was subsequently appointed to the position after the dismissal of Pravin Gordhan. Jonas said Ajay had told him that the Guptas wanted to increase the money they were making from the state, from R6bn to R7bn. Last week, Duduzane was briefly detained at OR Tambo International Airport on his arrival from Dubai, where he currently resides. Duduzane was in the country to attend the funeral of his younger brother Vusi, who was buried on Saturday after succumbing to an illness. The Star