Four musical legends are set to honour Madiba with a musical spectacle at the Joburg Theatre. Speaking to The Star during the rehearsals, Sipho “Hotstix” Mabuse said all was progressing according to plan. “The preparations are going well. It is an exciting challenge to work with different people and different types of music. Everyone is looking forward to this performance. The ladies are singing great songs, the band is sounding incredible. I feel privileged to be working with different types of musicians,” Mabuse said.  The Burn Out hitmaker said he met Mandela for the first time in Orlando, Soweto, after Madiba was released from prison. He said he was touched when Mandela gave him a big hug. Also in the line-up for the eventful show are Jonas Gwangwa, Abigail Kubeka and Dorothy Masuka. Kubeka, who also met Madiba at his home, said she was thrilled to be part of the celebrations. “I am very excited about this project, especially because we are working with young people. It always makes me happy to work with youngsters because we are passing on the baton. Working with them today, they see how we work; we also see how they work. We get to know each other better. We are grown-ups but we are still able to work and perform. I am so happy that they put me here, especially for uTata. I would put my life for him. I would do anything because he was such an amazing man,” she said.  Kubeka said she learnt a lot from Mandela and that they would be performing some of his favourite songs. “From uTata I have learnt humility. You may come alone in this world but working and living with people and being humble is the way to go. “We are doing songs that we sang back in the days. When Tata was out of prison, he asked me about the musicians that he used to listen to their songs when he was still in prison. He used to say those songs kept him and the rest of the leaders going. We sort of gave him some hope. When we sang for him back then, we knew that one day he will be with us.” Masuka, who often sang for Mandela, said she had to be part of the project.  “I had to, who else could get involved? We who are left, who are still alive... it had to be people like me. I was part of Mandela’s era. You can’t honour him one day, it should be every day. People must come and enjoy good music,” said the Khawuleza hitmaker. Nqobile Ndlovu from the Mzansi Youth Choir, who will also be putting on a performance, said he felt blessed to be performing alongside legends such as Masuka. “I joined the group last year. I am very lucky to perform with them. This is a great tribute to Tata. Mandela is an icon who freed us. He is my hero,” Ndlovu said. Tickets to the event are available from R150 at www.joburgtheatre.com or by calling 0861 670 670. For the centenary special it’s R100 per ticket for the first 100 tickets purchased daily. The shows will take place from Friday to Sunday. @SthembisoMedia