With the World Cup final between Croatia and France taking place on Sunday, July 15, we’ve compiled top 5 places you can watch the game in Joburg. Blank Bar Host nation Russia may be out of the Fifa World Cup 2018 but the spirit is still strong at Blank Bar this weekend. Set on Parkhurst's chic high street 4th Avenue, it is a dedicated pop-up cocktail bar which changes its theme every month to showcase different spirits. In celebration of the World Cup, Blank Bar became a Russian vodka bar complete with an enticing menu of vodka-based cocktails and fluffy Russian shapkas to wear if you are feeling Joburg's winter chill! Chaf Pozi Situated in the heart of Soweto at the base of the iconic Orlando Towers is Chaf Pozi, a local institution where you will experience food and a vibe that's authentic to South Africa. Chaf Pozi was opened to create an open Shiza Nyama restaurant where people could come and eat good local food, have a cold beer, listen to township music and watch Soweto's favourite sport, soccer! Queenie's Shebeen at The Hilton The Hilton Hotel's popular World Cup pop-up bar Queenie's Shebeen has some of the biggest screens in Sandton Central, making this a fun place to watch the action. Reliving the excitement of South Africa 2010 there's lots of classic South African food on the menu and almost as many vuvuzelas on display as on a typical day at FNB stadium. Xai Xai One of the oldest bars on Melville's famous 7th Street bar strip, the Mozambican bar may be a little rough around the edges, but special drinks offers on the classic brandy and coke, tasty pizzas, a large projector screen plus a dedicated crowd of local fans always makes for a lively atmosphere. Republic of 94 Boasting one of the longest bars in the city (more than 14m) this sophisticated Braamfontein den has low-lit banquette seating, moody murals by graffiti artist Justin Nomad and tons of plasma TVs with the capacity to show several sports events at once. An added bonus is the huge beer garden courtyard in the back.