Johannesburg - A female metro police officer is in hospital after a taxi driver punched her in the face twice during a road rage incident. This happened in Johannesburg on Friday morning while the officer was directing traffic. Spokesman for the Johannesburg Metro Police Department (JMPD) Wayne Minnaar, said the woman was at the corners of Joe Slovo and Houghton Drives when she stopped a taxi to allow other vehicles to pass. The taxi diver, however, became agitated and refused to stop, he said. Minnaar said as the taxi drove past, endangering other motorists, the driver yelled at the officer asking her why she was stopping him."He then punched her in the face. The officer grabbed his arm and the driver got out of the taxi and punched her again. Two metro police officers who were nearby came to her rescue." The taxi driver was charged with assault and ignoring a traffic officer's signal while the officer was taken to hospital. Minnaar said it has happened before that motorists assault officers directing traffic as they become impatient when they are stopped. Asked why people would have the audacity to attack an officer of the law knowing very well that they have guns and can use them to defend themselves, Wayne said: "This shows you the kind of attitude drivers have. The officer would only have used her weapon if the force she was meted with required it." Meanwhile, the Mayoral Committee of the City of Joburg passed a resolution to boost the metro police with a further 180 traffic wardens. Mayor Herman Mashaba said the City was growing at a substantial rate of about 3 000 new residents per month and this rapid growth in population had necessitated that they increase and improve capacity in all areas in order to deliver services efficiently and effectively. "This is part of “Diphetogo”, the City’s multi-party government’s initiative to improve the lives of our people by allocating a bigger share of funds only to priority projects that touch the lives of residents in a meaningful way. "Public safety is essential in maintaining stable economic growth and attracting investment to the City, which is why JMPD has been spearheading the restoration of law and order across the City. Mashaba said since the launch of Operation Buya Mthetho-a multi-disciplinary operation aimed at restoring law and order- more than 500 unroadworthy and illegal minibus taxis have been impounded by JMPD. He also said the Metro police’s K9 Narcotics and Tactical Unit has affected 1 193 arrests, recovering 123 illegal firearms, 136 kilograms of drugs and over 1000 hijacked vehicles. "To this end, the City will be recruiting about 180 traffic wardens from the former Extended Public Works Program employees who were previously trained to perform traffic pointsman duties. The Department of Public Safety identified the need to capacitate traffic wardens with additional powers in order to allow them to perform at optimum level." The Star