Johannesburg City Parks and Zoo has introduced several “newbies”. This week, residents were introduced to a species of wolves originally found in North America, Europe and Asia. Named Gray and Stella, the newbies were observed curiously navigating their new home and shying away from the cameras. A new anaconda has also been introduced which will grow to the size of the yellow anaconda which is based in the Animals of the Amazon Centre. The zoo has embarked on the acquisition of a number of animals, said the city's MMC for community development, Nonhlanhla Sifumba. The plan, she said, was to ensure that all new acquisitions were aligned to conservation and protection programmes and to the six different zones which visitors are able to view when walking through the zoo. Those zones include the Amazonia and Central African zones.  “Over the past three years the zoo has accelerated its strategic collection plan to acquire new animals to address the natural attrition due to its ageing stock, and to also focus on endangered exhibits that are unique to the African continent,” she said. The highlight of 2017/18 includes the acquisition of the mangabey monkey, the colobus monkey, a green anaconda, ringtailed lemurs, suckermouth catfish, giant bullfrogs, a black mamba, a Jersey cow as well as the grey wolves. In the meantime the zoo is working hard to ensure that all enclosures are weather-proofed for the harsh Joburg winter. “While most animals quickly adapt to extreme weather conditions, such as grizzly bears in Canada, which are exposed to temperatures that fluctuate from -1 to 26 degrees, or polar bears in Warsaw Zoo that can experience temperatures from -5 to 25 degrees, there is a mandatory requirement that Johannesburg Zoo needs to ensure that the animals in our care are protected from extreme weather conditions,” she said. As a precaution to ensure minimum discomfort, the zoo has made certain that all night rooms are heated and that all animals, including, 33-year-old Makoko the gorilla, are allowed to linger a little longer in the night room in the morning, until the sunshine warms up his outdoor playpen for his enrichment programme. Fish, reptiles, arachnids and amphibians are also enjoying the new air-conditioning and heating systems. This is complemented with infra-red hotspots for extra winter protection, and is supported by massive heat pumps in the walk-through aquarium that regulates the water temperature.  The crocodile hothouse has also been converted from plastic to brick, and is fitted with two additional air-conditioners. More importantly, Johannesburg Zoo has high-powered generators that will be activated in the event of any emergency or power outage. The zoo is calling on animal lovers and the business community to support its adopt-an-animal programme. Benefits based on support include free entrance, branding of enclosures, naming rights and signage opportunities. Direct enquiries to Louise Gordon at lgordon@jhbcityparks.com or by calling 011-712-6788.