 How has technology shaped your life and career? Technology has had an integral role in my career because technology is my tool. I mean I am a DJ in the club. I am a radio personality on the radio. Technology has been the number one tool in my career.   Have you ever done online shopping? If yes, what did you buy and what was the name of the store? I bought a pair of sneakers from a sneaker store in the US called Foot Locker. It was safe for me to buy online. I mean if you use a registered website online. The original verified website then everything will follow through. I am very cautious about those things.  How many phones do you have? And do they have passwords? I only have one phone. It’s an iPhone X. Over the years I used to have many phones, but I thought it is stupid for me. If I give you my number then it means I want you to have my numbers, and chances are, you will use them. I got a password.  Do you use the same password to log into all your social media platforms? No. I use different passwords because if someone gets access to that password, then they have access to your social media accounts and personal information.  Name three gadgets that you think everyone should consider buying. Laptop, PlayStation and a Smart TV.  What makes a good gadget and why? Functionality. Does it actually do what it says it does? Is it useful to my life? It needs to be true to your own needs.  What do you think about full body scanners? I think they are great. Security is important since people move from different parts of the world. In order to ensure our safety, everyone needs to be checked.  If you were to invent a tech device to enhance your deejaying skills, what would it be and how would it look? I would want to come up with a sensor. A sensor that could determine the mood of a crowd that I am deejaying for and tell me the mood. ALSO READ: DJ Shimza lets us in on his favourite gadgets  Are you in any family WhatsApp group? How often to you comment there? I am on two family WhatsApp groups. On average, once or twice a week.  Have you ever tried SnapChat? Why? I have never tried SnapChat. I was never interested.  What are your thoughts about how South African celebrities use social media? I think we are learning as we go. I think social media is learning from us. Social media platforms are learning human behaviour as it goes, and we are learning the platforms as they grow, enhance and develop. I think human behaviour, because largely it is based on emotions, it is always interesting in the way it changes. People were less cautious about what they say on social media, but now they are more cautious because your employer can fire you because of what you say on social media. @SthembisoMedia