Harare - The Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (ZEC) has played down chances of violence breaking out in the capital, Harare on Saturday when the ruling Zanu-PF and opposition MDC Alliance hold their last rallies a few kilometres from each other. Supporters of both parties are already making their way to be part of the campaign grand finale. The Electoral campaign Act compels political parties to wind up their campaigns 48 hours before Monday's Election Day that has been declared a public holiday. Zimbabwe President and Zanu-PF leader Emmerson Mnangagwa winds up his campaign with a big rally dubbed the "Victory rally" at the 60 000 seater National Stadium later on Saturday while MDC Alliance leader Nelson Chamisa makes his final push at Freedom Square across town. ZEC commissioner Qhubani Moyo urged both parties to maintain the relatively peaceful campaigning that has been a major break from the violent past elections. "We do not anticipate parties to spoil this election so late in the race with incidents of violence. The ZEC believes that both parties can peaceful share the capital and address their supporters without resorting to violence," said Moyo. MDC Alliance and Chamisa's spokesperson Nkululeko Sibanda is predicting a large turn out at Freedom Square. "This will be the biggest rally the country has seen. I know Zanu-PF has been dishing out free T-shirts but I don't see anyone wearing them. Victory is certain," said Sibanda. Zanu-PF spokesperson Simon Khaya Moyo also predicted a landslide victory  when he urged party supporters  to attend their mega rally. "All roads lead to the National Sports Stadium and no one should be left behind for it is a day for the whole world to see that Zimbabwe is not only open for business but for peace and prosperity. "The rally will be a mother of all rallies because it will represent the nerve and artery of our nation and party both as a party as government," he said. Zanu-PF legal Affairs secretary Paul Mangwana also talked tough. "The revolutionary party will put the final nail in the opposition's coffin with the final victory rally," he said. With such talk, police could be seen keeping a close eye on both camps while the multitudes of observers are also expected to split their teams to attend both rallies. The Star