Let me admit, I should have written this review a long time ago, but due to the fact that a couple of months ago I wrote a review about an iPhone X, I thought I should save this for later. I am getting tired of explaining the same thing over and over again when people make remarks that all Apple’s smartphones are the same. How can they be the same? Well, being an iPhone user and an unofficial appointed brand ambassador of Apple, let me show you the difference between previous iPhones, iPhone 8 and 8 Plus. I know I should start talking about an iPhone 8, but I will do things the other way around. Here is why: I think the iPhone 8 Plus is one of Apple’s best new flagship devices. The iPhone 8 Plus’s screen is bigger and I like it. The iPhone 8 Plus has a 5.5-inch screen display. ALSO CHECK: Sony Xperia XA2 has all the stamina The iPhone 8 has a 4.7-inch display with a 1334-by-750-pixel resolution. I spend a lot of time on my phone working. Part of my work includes posting content on social media, and I believe one needs to see clearly when sending a tweet or posting content on Facebook. The iPhone 8 Plus displays more useful content at once, even with its lower resolution. It’s wider as you hold it in portrait. Some of the content that I need to post on social media includes pictures. The iPhone 8 Plus has dual 12-megapixel cameras in the rear. Introducing Apple’s dual-camera system was the best decision. Both cameras have physically larger sensors and work perfectly together Unlike other previous iPhone devices, the iPhone 8 Plus has a Portrait Lighting. I must say, it adds an effect that is believed to imitate professionally staged lighting. One of the things that I think makes the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus better, is the battery life. The iPhone 8 and 8 Plus battery life lasts many more hours longer compared to previous iPhones. This means you can spend more time on the phone working or chatting without having to worry about the battery life. The iPhone 8 and 8 Plus are virtually perfect phones. Both phones makes one want to make endless calls, take pictures and explore different elements that devices come with. The iPhone 8 and 8 Plus have the same chassis design. Both feature a glass front and back. Because of this, both phones are able to be compatible with wireless charging accessories. But I still find the iPhone 8 less attractive because of its size. The storage for iPhone 8 is 64GB and the phone costs R14 499. The iPhone 8 Plus has 256GB and costs R18 499. @SthembisoMedia