Huseyin Caliskan and Muhammed Caliskan made damning allegations of an elaborate embezzlement scheme, claiming that their business partners, Turkish nationals Abubekir Salim and Mehmet Selim Kaymak, had siphoned off millions of rand from their company, Sumo Coal, to a Mauritius Commercial Bank account. In April, the Caliskan brothers won a draft order from the high court in Pretoria that Salim and Kaymak should repatriate the money into the FNB account of Londani Coal, which is a subsidiary of Sumo Coal. The Caliskan brothers are the nephews of Semsettin Caliskan, the Turkey-based chairperson of Sumo Coal, who was also accused of being party to fraud, which relates to the sale of mining shares in May 2015. “At issue here is the sale and transfer of the 100% shareholding that Sumo Coal had in Root Mining, not Londani Coal. Root Mining owned 74% of Londani Coal. “It is the unlawful and fraudulent sale and transfer of Root Mining to Shura that the applicant (Sumo Coal) seeks to reverse. In the meantime, the applicant seeks an order against the first and second respondents (Salim and Kaymak) to bar them from any business activity, control and management of Londani Coal,” Huseyin Caliskan had stated in court papers. However, Judge HJ Fabricius slammed the Caliskan brothers last week for waiting three years before challenging the sale of the shares. The judge said the brothers had launched court action only after Root Mining and Londani Coal had become profitable, adding that this had to “be seen in the light that
the applicant (Sumo Coal) is now experiencing extreme financial difficulty”. Judge Fabricius said the Caliskan’s embezzlement and fraud allegations “were unsubstantiated, devoid of any factual basis, evidence or documentary proof”, and ordered the brothers to pay the costs of the application, including all legal fees. Abubekir Salim, who is a director of Londani, welcomed last week's order, including the punitive costs granted by the judge, adding that the April court order, which had removed him as a director, should never have been granted in the first place. “The order was opportunistically used by the applicants to run a sustained malicious media campaign aimed only at tarnishing our reputation, but we were always confident that the fairness of the South African judiciary would eventually come to our aid,” Salim said. “Experience has taught me that one can make or lose money in the course of engaging in business, but when the attack is to your integrity and all the values that you stand for,
it is important to put aside everything and focus on clearing your name and restoring your reputation, as I had to do for the last two months,” he added. Huseyin Caliskan, however, called the judgment a travesty of justice, saying it was false that Sumo Coal did nothing about the alleged fraudulent sale of shares. “We cannot just leave this lying down. There is foul play here and we will get to the bottom of it. We did not send anyone to commit any fraud. Now we have a judge insulting us and accusing us of all sorts of things. We cannot accept this,” he said. @khayakoko88