Johannesburg - Just less than a month before ditching Mzwanele Manyi’s Afro Worldview, MultiChoice has not concluded the bidding process for a new broadcaster.The Naspers-owned pay-TV operator announced in February that it would not renew Afro Worldview’s contract to continue on its DStv platform. Then known as ANN7, the 24-hour news station had just been acquired by Manyi from the controversial Guptas through a vendor-financing deal. Manyi rebranded the station in April. He hoped this would help bury its past of being perceived as having a bias against detractors of the Guptas and former president Jacob Zuma. MultiChoice said in February it would replace Afro Worldview with a black-owned channel on August 20. This would broadcast predominantly in English. More than 60 companies launched bids for the slot. Manyi could not be reached on Sunday, but it was understood that Afro Worldview was one of the bidders. MultiChoice spokesperson Jackie Rakitla on Sunday said a decision on the new broadcaster had not yet been taken, and the bidding process had not been finalised. “It is inaccurate that a decision was taken. Once we have finalised the bid process, we will make an announcement,” Rakitla added. The Communication Workers Union (CWU) said it was worrying that MultiChoice had not made its decision, just weeks before August 20. Aubrey Tshabalala, the union’s general secretary, told The Star that anxiety among Afro Worldview employees was peaking because they didn't know if they would be absorbed in the new broadcaster. “We have an agreement with MultiChoice that says workers from ANN7 must not be at the very end of the tail, because of the decision that must be taken,” Tshabalala said. It was crucial for these workers that MultiChoice announces its decision soon, he added. “The sooner they announce this thing, the better. We’ll know where we’re going and what transition has to be made. Whether it’s the same broadcaster or another that wins the bid to us is immaterial.” Tshabalala added that some of Afro Worldview’s employees had fallen victim to an alleged bogus new TV channel. Channon Merricks, the owner of Vila Kasi Holdings, was accused of duping about 90 media workers to join his allegedly bogus channel by telling them he had been awarded the contract to replace Afro Worldview. Merricks denied the allegations against him, insisting that Vila Kasi TV would go live next Wednesday. Said Tshabalala: “People resigned from various jobs and went to this Vila Kasi TV, but it seems it’s collapsing before it even starts. Workers will be lured, and wrongly so, to join other institutions, and that could be devastating. We need to engage MultiChoice so that it clears the air and the anxiety of many people who are bidding,” said Tshabalala. The CWU was also eager to see if MultiChoice opted for a broadcaster that brings about diversity in the media space. “Having seen the interest coming from media houses, our fear is that if the interest comes from the same main media players, it could mean the dynamics around news reporting might not change. We might just be another addition of eNCA. It brings about a number of concerns from our side.” @BonganiNkosi87 The Star