Moepya is waging a battle to clear his name ahead of appearing before a parliamentary ad hoc committee that will decide on his suitability to make a comeback. Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng announced on Monday that a panel he was chairing had shortlisted Moepya as one of eight candidates to fill three commissioner vacancies at the IEC. The panel handed over the names to Parliament. Moepya left his top position at the IEC in October last year. The IEC revealed to The Star it had scheduled disciplinary action against him. In a 2013 report, former public protector Thuli Madonsela had urged the IEC to consider disciplinary action against Moepya and two other officials over their role in the irregular leasing of its Centurion headquarters. Madonsela found that the R320million lease of the Riverside Office Park from property company Abland “violated procurement rules”. Then-IEC chairperson Pansy Tlakula resigned in September 2014 over the scandal. The IEC confirmed Moepya was due to face a disciplinary hearing when he left. “It should be noted that the commission offered Moepya a renewal of his five-year contract at the conclusion of his initial five-year contract in March 2017. Moepya opted not to accept the renewal,” said IEC spokesperson Kate Bapela. “A disciplinary process was initiated against Moepya in line with the recommendations of the protector’s report on the procurement for the Riverside Office Park premises of the Electoral Commission. “At the time he chose not to renew his contract, Moepya was pursuing his legal rights in challenging the disciplinary process. “As with any internal disciplinary process, this process was terminated upon the resignation of Moepya,” Bapela said. United Democratic Movement leader Bantu Holomisa wrote a letter to Justice Mogoeng last month objecting to Moepya being on the shortlist. He told Justice Mogoeng that Moepya was not fit to be appointed as commissioner because he “refused to subject himself to the disciplinary committee”. “Does it mean that he’s the only brains that we can rely on whereas he’s got a dark cloud over his shoulder? “We’ll see in Parliament. I suspect the matter will haunt him there,” said Holomisa. The Council for the Advancement of the South African Constitution also had reservations about Moepya, revealed executive secretary Lawson Naidoo. “We remain concerned that Moepya did not see it fit to challenge the public protector’s report earlier,” he said. “We certainly hope that Parliament will pursue this issue.” But Moepya stood firm against his critics. Responding to The Star’s questions yesterday, he denied that he left the IEC while still facing disciplinary action. “The impression being created that I left the commission to avoid a disciplinary process is untruthful,” he said. In a letter responding to Holomisa’s objection, Moepya said: “I left because my term had come to an end.” He said he had always contested Madonsela’s findings against him. “I have made extensive representations for the correction of the report. “I have an apology (from current Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane) and have made it available to the panel in an affidavit, as requested.” @BonganiNkosi87