As Joburgers prepare to leave the miserable cold weather for sunny Durban this weekend, Tebogo Phiri is making sure he will be giving them an experience to remember. Now in its second year, the Soweto VIP marquee will make its way down to the Greyville Racecourse to provide entertainment and good times at the biggest horse racing event- Vodacom Durban July. Phiri, who is the owner of popular Dobsonville pub Disoufeng, said this year was going to be twice as big as the last one. “We were so impressed with the turn out last year we even had people queuing at the entrance to try and buy tickets to enter. But our seating allocation didn’t allow us. So for this year we have met the demand. People will get to feel that VIP experience with us.” The marquee has grown bigger in size and in entertainment with expected performances from Ambitiouz Entertainment’s women squad which includes Londie London, Gigi Lamayne, La Sauce and Miss Pru.  “It’s going to be a great offering with food and drinks. Zodwa Wabantu will be doing a guest appearance and we can expect her dress to be even more dramatic than the one she wore last year. We also have a special surprise performance that will blow the attendees away.” Comedian Mashabela will keep the audience in stitches while Ms Cosmo DJ will also make sure they dance the night away. “The biggest thing for us is that it is about bringing Soweto to the races. Our suppliers, from sound to the decor lounge, are all from Soweto. Also, 80 percent of the entertainment are people from Soweto.” Phiri said the DJ line-up was going to come from the popular jocks that are known for their good sound. “We have Mad on Dough, Mayibuye, Playgal, Maze, Rogers and Stokie who are well known on the party scene. We are still getting enquiries even now about the marquee. For those who won’t be able to join us on Saturday, we will be having a Soweto invades Durban pre-party at Vivo in Umhlanga on Friday. We will be turning the place into a club for the night and giving the people some of the marquee experience.” Phiri said even though the marquee was still new to the Durban July scene, they were already making their mark and giving bigger marquees a run for their money. This year’s calendar event’s theme is It’s Time, allowing for fashionistas and stylistas to be as creative and lively as possible. @mane_mpi 