The award-winning actress is no stranger to the soapie world. She previously appeared on e.tv’s Scandal! and Mzansi Magic’s Isibaya. Mbedu’s talent truly shone through when she starred in another Mzansi Magic drama series, Is’thunzi. She was nominated for an International Emmy award for Best Performance last year for her role as the energetic Winnie on the show. After months of turning down the offer to be part of the local soapie, Mbedu finally took the role she was not only ready for but also planned to take to the next level. Tonight she debuts in Generations: The Legacy, playing the part of Okuhle, a girl trying to make a new life for herself. The Star asked the 27-year-old several questions about her new role. The Star (TS): What is the role about and what can viewers expect from you? Thuso Mbedu (TM): After receiving a brief on the role, I went to audition for the part and got it. I play Okuhle; she is a manipulative chancer who is in town to start a new life for herself and cause some level of disorder. I played a lot with the Zulu accent for this role and viewers can expect some comedic moments from my performance. TS: How did you prepare for the role? TM: With each new thing there is always a level of excitement, but more than anything, the desire to execute well and make sure that I have put my best foot forward, because you are only as good as your last performance. That drive to execute Okuhle well is how I prepare. I researched a lot on various accents and the royal kingdom and families because I wanted to execute her as authentically and true to her character as possible. TS: What are some of the challenges that you experienced when preparing for the role? TM: It is all about internal performance choice in how best to play her and stay true to who she is. TS: Besides Generations, what other projects are you busy with? TM: I have a cameo on a show called Side Dish, which will be coming out soon. I am working on my commissioned film script with Amanda Lane as well as working on my own crime-action TV series. Mbedu described her Emmy nomination as akin to something out of her wildest dreams. “One dreams of such accolades but one never thinks that they are truly attainable - maybe in my 30s or 40s, if I am lucky. Being nominated so early in my career was truly unexpected but it was a pleasant and most humbling surprise.” TS: How was the experience on the day of the awards? TM: It was eye-opening and allowed me to see that I can be as good as my favourite performers. I just need to put in the work. Catch Mbedu doing all the work in Generations: The Legacy at 8 tonight on SABC1. @SthembisoMedia