"How can we say, honestly, the soldiers took the country, practically snatched it from Mugabe, to come and hand it over to Chamisa?”  Mukupe is alleged to have said. The paper also said Mukupe  went on to refer to several reports which appeared in the state-controlled Herald newspaper which repeatedly misquotes Chamisa.  At 40-years-old, Chamisa is the youngest politician to seek the top job. “This country, where it is now and where it is coming from, needs a grown up, a steady hand, a person who can stabilise things,” Mukupe is alleged to have told supporters. "Look at me, I also want to be a President, there is no one who does not want to seat in the (Mercedes) Benz while sirens are sounding all the way, but everything has its time." “I don’t think that I am mature enough to be given the country to run and all the soldiers in this country salute me saying ‘the commander in chief is here’ But I heard Chamisa, at another rally, saying in the morning he wakes up and practices how to inspect a guard of honour.” Welshman Ncube, spokesman for the MDC Alliance, which includes the main opposition party, the MDC,  told Independent Newspapers that Mukupe’s statement was “worrying”. Ncube also recalled that ahead of a previous election, when former MDC president Morgan Tsvangirai was standing for election, military leaders  declared that the presidential post  could only be occupied by those who fought in the liberation war. Tsvangirai did not formally join the 1970’s war against white-ruled Rhodesia. Zimbabwe’s military leaders made it clear they would not recognise Tsvangirai if he was ever elected to power. Ncube said the “unfortunate” statement by Mukupe should be withdrawn. “Mukupe is repeating statements previously made by the military.” MDC-T spokesperson, Tabitha Khumalo told Newsday that  Mukupe’s statement amounted to a threat against democracy and could cause fear among the electorate ahead of the polls. “We have been calling for the demilitarisation of the elections in this country. These statements coming from a deputy minister and Zanu PF politician are most unfortunate and should be condemned,” she said, and called on the military to return to barracks.