 Should social media platforms give you the option of using your mother tongue? Definitely. Social media has major significance in how we communicate with one another, not only in Africa but the world. So I really think social media has also got the responsibility to learn more about its users by being relatable to every single person from all corners of the world.  What is your mother tongue? My mother tongue is Zulu but I’m almost fluent in Sotho, Tswana and Xhosa from an indigenous language perspective, and I also speak English fluently. Travelling has made me realise how little I can speak and understand people from different parts of the world, hence why it’s imperative for me to learn Spanish, French and 
Mandarin.  How often do you post content on your social media platforms using your mother tongue? I generally use my mother tongue on social media to relay a message that is just for my friends or family, to pass social commentary that will only be relatable in vernac or to Zulu speaking people.  Should advertisements on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram be written in your mother tongue and not just English? Definitely. The only way to revolutionise the advertising industry at large and social media advertising that does not offend, discriminate or play on stereotypes is for the advertising world to do their research and learn how to address people of colour in a way they feel comfortable with and that they can relate to.  Would you download a navigation app that uses your mother tongue? That would be really interesting, and funny at the same time, but I think it would really work nicely and encourage people to learn and be able to navigate or give directions using their mother tongue languages. So it’s another yes.  If you were to invent a technological gadget that speaks, which language would you like the device to speak? I’d create an authentically African language app called Meet the Locals, that tells you exactly what different African countries have to offer from a tourism perspective and helps you easily engage the locals using authentically African 
languages. Be it Amharic from Ethiopia, Yoruba from West Africa, Arabic from Northern Africa or Shona from Zimbabwe, this app would encourage Africans and people visiting Africa to start travelling in Africa and want to engage properly with different people from Africa. 