Public Service and Administration Minister Ayanda Dlodlo warned her colleagues in the executive not to employ more people than provided by regulations, and or fill posts with contracts that will go on after the elections next year. “Considering the upcoming elections in mid-2019, departments are cautioned against filling of posts in the offices of the executive authority (ministers) or deputy minister for a period exceeding the period running up to the elections,” Dlodlo told national and provincial government departments. In a letter dated April 16, Dlodlo said the move would ensure that departments will not experience operational challenges and financial difficulties resulting from an executive authority vacating his or her office after the elections. She has asked her colleagues to refer cases of employees that are an operational and financial burden to the Public Service Commission. In the letter Dlodlo reminds ministers, their deputies, premiers and MECs they are allowed to employ officials without following normal advertisement processes, but warns that the suitability of candidates must be assessed. She said she was sending the letter to ensure that departments were not faced with operational challenges and severe financial burdens when the relevant office bearer vacated office. Ministers and premiers are entitled to a private office staff complement of 10 while deputy ministers and MECs can appoint up to six officials, including spokespersons, private or appointments secretary, receptionist and an aide who can double as a driver or messenger. An additional post may be provided for ministers whose portfolio relate to the activities of more than one executive institution or portfolio. Ramaphosa's executive has 35 ministers and 36 deputies. His predecessor Jacob Zuma had appointed a bloated executive after his election in 2009. The cabinet, including Ramaphosa and his deputy David Mabuza, cost about R162million a year in salaries. During his maiden State of the Nation address in February, Ramaphosa undertook to initiate a process to review the configuration, number and size of national departments. On Friday, he said the process had begun with a technical task team of officials now reviewing the configuration of the national government. "A review of previous and current configurations is still in progress, with the view to establishing the synergy between the constitution and legislation on one hand, and the national macro-organisation of the national government, on the other. A preliminary analysis has been concluded,” Ramaphosa said. He said the review would be concluded after due political consultations, in time for implementation in the 6th administration after next year’s polls. Members of the executive are also paid relocation expenses including those of their families and domestic workers, on assumption of office, from their home base to the seat of office, whether to a state-owned or private residence, which is occupied for official purposes. Earlier this year, the SA Institute of Race Relations revealed that the VIP protection budget ballooned from R353m in 2008/09 to R1.5bn in the current financial year.