It took me some time to figure out how it works. I remember being frustrated and asking myself why it is not easy to navigate my way around the phone. I have always been an Apple and iPhone loyal customer. When I get a new device, I hardly read the manual or rely on Google to figure out things. But with the iPhone X, I had no choice but to search for some of the things online. It’s clear that the iPhone X (it’s still safe to call it iPhone 10 if you want to) is a sign of the direction that the tech giant is taking. The question is: Will it take them far? Personally, I think we should give Apple a chance and see what they want to achieve, but I think they should avoid bringing too many changes to new devices all at once. Take a look at the new way of unlocking the phone. I know this might sound stupid, but it took me 30 minutes to figure out how to unlock it even though it 


was written “Swipe up”. I guess it's because I'm used to pressing the iconic physical “home” button of the previous generation, which immediately unlocks the device. It doesn’t waste time to take the user to the home screen. One can’t shy away from the fact that the iPhone X design is totally different from the old design and it seems like users can expect more changes in future devices. I think the iPhone X screen is their best so far. If I'm not mistaken, this device has the highest resolution of an iPhone screen ever. I find the new device very heavy compared to previous iPhones I had before (well, let me say the ones that are in my wardrobe, as I'm collecting them). I find it difficult to use iPhone X with one hand. I even posted a WhatsApp status about my right hand not coping with the weight of the phone. Despite my complaining about the phone being heavy, I still find it appealing and worth buying. When using it, it made me feel good and, yes, *  felt like “I have arrived”. Trust me, you can’t have a brand new iPhone and not feel cool, hahaha! Many people have been asking themselves why Apple decided to jump straight to iPhone 10. Well, the tech-savvy company is celebrating 10 years since it launched its first iPhone. Now, stop asking questions and get yourself an iPhone 10! You can visit the iStore in Sandton or other branches across the country and get this magical new flagship that has 64GB and a 5.8-inch screen display for about R16999 to R22999. Once you go Apple, there is no turning back. @SthembisoMedia