From the kind of jokes that made you laugh until your tummy hurt, to the delicious food that not only made you go back for seconds but thirds as well, and the music that made toes tap and hips sway, the show lived up to expectations. Held at the Birchwood Hotel on Friday, the event featured greats such as The Levites, Nigerian guitarist Kunle Ayo, Judith Sephuma and two female comics, Gilli Apter and Noko Moswete. The hilarious Hector Motivator  demonstrated why he was the resident MC for the show, ensuring there was never a dull moment. Dressed in a bizarre outfit - comprising a camouflage onesie, a yellow cape draped over his shoulders and yellow boots - Hector had everyone in stitches when he poked fun at himself and his choice of clothing. He said even though people may look at him and think he was a Ben 10, he wasn’t, but rather an old man in a mid-life crisis, hence the weird attire.  @kunleayoofficial @kunleayo as introduced by yours truly at the #BirchwoodJazz. A post shared by  Hector Motivator (@hectormotivator) on May 11, 2018 at 1:16pm PDT  The first act to take the stage was The Levites, a group of dazzling young jazz singers from Daveyton. While the lead singer stole the show with her velvety voice, it was the group’s female drummer, Portia, who impressed Hector. He couldn't stop raving about her. As soon as the group were done, Nigeria’s great guitarist Ayo took to the stage, lighting it up. Well buffed, his bulging muscles threatening to burst through his shirt, he gave his female fans exactly what they wanted.  Singing, playing the guitar and gyrating to the music, much to the amusement of many women in the audience, Ayo had them swooning. However, it was when he jumped off the stage and literally took his music to the audience, playing for them as they danced in front of him, that the crowd really went crazy. After Ayo’s energetic performance,  Apter, a bootylicious comedienne, provided some comic relief. She left the audience in hysterics when she told just how her figure confuses people, especially black women. BOOTYLICIOUS: Gilli Apter Moswete got the audience to laugh hysterically when she cracked jokes about Pedis, who she said were neurotic about greetings, born-again Christians and men. Moswete, who does her comedy skit in Sepedi, narrated a time she did her comedy in Limpopo and not one of the audience laughed. She later found that they were deliberately not laughing as they were offended that she had not greeted them first when she got onto the stage.  It was only after greeting them that they started laughing at her jokes and telling each other how funny she was, something that left her amused. After Moswete had everyone in stitches, Sephuma, who was the main course of the night, took to the stage to a loud and roaring applause from the audience. A trim-looking Sephuma, fresh from an international tour, serenaded the crowd with several of her hits, such as
A Cry, A Smile and A Dance; Mmangwane; and Palesa.  She finished the show with some of her gospel hits, taking the audience to church, something they very much enjoyed. Mummy Kgopa, who has attended the shows for the past 10 years, had nothing but praise for the organisers of the show, saying they keep giving the people exactly what they wanted. However, the 45-year-old woman, who lives in Protea Glen, Soweto and had to drive home in the early hours of the morning as that was when the show ended, had these words for the organisers. “It would be lovely for us to just walk from here to the hotel after the show instead of driving far at night. “However, not  everyone has money this time of the month. “It would be better if these shows were held at the end of the month, maybe after the 15th or the 25th when people have been paid so they can book accommodation as well.”