An SMS that Limberg claims De Lille had sent her, as well as a letter written by Smith - the DA’s deputy chief whip in the council - details allegations of bullying in De Lille’s leadership style. It was included among key evidence in a report compiled by the DA’s chief whip in Parliament, John Steenhuisen, the report stated. Ebrahim resigned from his position early this year. Yesterday, De Lille categorically denied sending such an SMS, questioning why the text had only materialised now when it was sent as far back as September 28, 2016. “The authenticity of that SMS needs to be checked out,” De Lille said, adding that Limberg - who is the mayoral committee member for informal settlements, water and waste services, and energy - must explain why she had kept quiet about the SMS for the past five months, although her (De Lille's) lawyers had asked for it. “Is it because her handlers are telling her? She is instructed by her handlers. All of a sudden it surfaces only now I am also wondering where the SMS appeared "It appeared from under Xanthea and Smith’s pillowcase,” said De Lille. She also questioned why the matter was not reported to the MEC for local government. Limberg, who had co-owned a property with Smith in Hout Bay since early last year, said some senior members of the DA knew about the SMS shortly after it was sent to her. “Nobody influenced me to do anything," De Lille said. "I believed right from the start that the SMS was improper and therefore I did not respond to it. I submitted additional issues, other than just the SMS, in the Steenhuisen inquiry. "JP Smith had no involvement in any of these matters, and only became aware of these multiple issues after the fact,” De Lille said. Limberg said she could not bring the issue to the attention of MEC for local government because “I did not believe that this would (have) resulted in the matter being taken up appropriately. " Because at the time of the incident, Ms De Lille was the DA's provincial leader and she was responsible for the performance assessment of all the MECs in the Western Cape Legislature. There was a clear conflict of interest” She added that before the party ousted her, De Lille had continually asked for an opportunity to clear her name in public. With regard to her co-owning a property in Hout Bay with Smith, Limberg said: “No matter who I own an investment property with, it doesn’t make Ms De Lille’s action correct." Limberg said co-owning a property with Smith was “a financially viable decision”. In his response, Smith said the accusation that he influenced Limberg was “simply nonsense”. “The mayor is a racist If she doesn't like something a person of colour does, she calls them a puppet as if they are unable to make up their own mind. "Xanthea Limberg is not a person anyone can influence. She has a strong will and a clear idea of what is right and wrong. She will not allow herself to be manipulated or influenced by anybody, which includes Patricia de Lille,” said Smith. Asked whether he was in a romantic relationship with Limberg, Smith said: “It’s none of your business.” Asked whether he wanted to become mayor, Smith replied: “I have no ambitions of becoming the mayor, there are better people than me” In a statement, acting mayor Ian Neilson yesterday said he would appoint the new mayoral committee members by 3pm today, if  the Western Cape High Court had not made a ruling by then on De Lille’s application. He was legally able to do so, he pointed out. But De Lille disputed Neilson’s claim, saying it was illegal and she was getting legal advice. “They did not listen to the judge's suggestion that the old mayoral committee should remain,” De Lille said. Said Neilson’s spokesperson Piera Abbott: “The only court ruling was that the IEC (Electoral Commission of SA) cannot fill the vacant councillor position. "There was no ruling on the mayoral position, which is not an IEC competency, but that of the speaker and the council. "The court reserved judgment on these issues,” she pointed out.