However, as he was staying with his aunt, he never asked for it. He was just grateful to have a roof over his head, clothes on his back and food on the table. But he never got over the years of longing to have a bicycle and  three years ago, as a 42-year-old Molepo, got more than just his first bicycle. He turned his love for bicycles into a flourishing business. The 45-year-old pharmacy technician-turned-restaurant owner and founder of Cycle Life SA spent most of his life travelling the world before opening his first bicycle shop. He got his inspiration in Europe and The Netherlands, where hordes of people use bicycles rather than cars as their mode of transport. On returning to South Africa, the Soweto-born businessman was approached by a man who was renting The Rock, a restaurant in Rockville, Soweto. According to Molepo, he was asked to be a partner in the running of the restaurant, but the man then disappeared, leaving him to run the restaurant on his own. His initial plan was to open a music museum because he is a jazz lover. He partnered with a few jazz enthusiasts, one of whom was Kaya FM's Nicky Blumenfeld. They held jazz sessions and, after a while, Molepo added the bike shop to the restaurant. “Growing up, I never owned a bicycle. I always wanted to but that never happened. "When I came back from Europe, I saw an opportunity to buy one for myself and later open a bicycle shop where I can sell bicycle parts, train and educate people about bicycles and how they can use them as a mode of transport. “One of my goals is to see Sowetans using bicycles as a mode of transport. They could save a lot of money. "I believe many people here in the township still need to learn more about bicycles: how to ride them, take care of them and so on,” added Molepo. He said he would also like to end the stereotype that bicycles were only meant for men. “When growing up, we were told that bicycles are meant for men and not girls. We were told that girls shouldn’t ride bicycles. "I want to change that. I want to see more women riding bicycles. It’s about time we changed that perception,” said Molepo. During the week, he teaches at least 20 school-going youngsters to cycle. “You would swear that I run a crèche when it gets packed. They come here. I teach them about different types of bicycles, how to ride and wash them. “We spend one-hour training per day. I ask them to wash the bicycles and give them something as a form of gratitude. “My aim is to move the youth away from loitering which could lead them into doing wrong things. I would like to see them compete in cycling competitions and take cycling as a profession," he said. While he provides his service to schoolchildren free, older people have to pay. If you want to learn to ride, he charges R150 to R350 per day,  depending on the type of bicycle. Renting a bicycle with a helmet costs R150. On Sundays Molepo hosts a cycling breakfast run where cyclists join him on 35km to 45km rides in and around Soweto. The cyclists sometimes start in Senaoane, ride to Southgate, past Orlando Stadium and various tourist destinations. Molepo is planning to host a June 16 cycling event where cyclists from Sharpeville will visit and cycle together in and around Soweto. His cycling shop is located at 1987 Vundla Drive, Rockville, Moroka, Soweto.  For more information about his cycle offerings and to contact him, e-mail jerrys@otrlogistix.co.za or go to his Facebook page: CycleLife SA.  @SthembisoMedia