“All I want is a decent house as promised by the ruling party, the African National Congress.” These are the words of Joyce Ngubani who lives in a shack in Freedom Park, Soweto. Ngubani has spent the last 20 years in a shack and decided to participate on the planned ‘Stay Away for Action!’ protest to express her grievances about not getting a house. The 59-year-old who lives with her four children said she is tired of empty promises by the ANC. According to Ngubani last year government promised to address the longstanding land issue, housing shortage, electricity and water. “We have been waiting for land stands promised to us by the then Gauteng Human Settlements MEC Paul Mashatile and Lindiwe Sisulu who was the minister of Human Settlements. They came here and promised many of use here in Freedom Park that we will get stands, but there is nothing,” said Ngubani. Ngubani said they were surviving with the social grants of two of her younger children and that sometimes they would not have something to eat. A service delivery protest brought traffic to a standstill with learners not allowed to go to school and many taxi consumers left stranded on Wednesday morning. The protests were sparked by a WhatsApp message that has been circulating from the weekend informing residents to participate in the planned shut down.    The message which has been seen by The Star lists demands of residents of Freedom Park, Lehae, Eldorado Park, Thembalihle, Lehae and Slovo Park represented by the Soweto Action Committee and Gauteng Civic Association. Some of the demands include the following points: "Eskom says Soweto owes them R15 million on electricity- How do the Guptas, Lynne Brown and Brian Molefe owe Eskom and the people of South Africa? •We say no to pre-paid electricity and water meters
•We demand decent houses for all. Free education up to university •Decent work for fence wages for all workers 
•Scrapping of the E-tolls and of the Vat increase," reads the message. Gauteng Civic Association representative Shepard Masiza said he woke up in the early hours of the morning to gather local residents to protest. “We planned this long time ago. We are sick and tired of being used by politicians. We want to send a strong message and we believe through this we will get the message accross. “Paul Mashatile and Lindiwe Sisulu promised to give us 48000 land stands. He came here and asked for data. They came here and made a survey and registered us to get houses last year in May.  We waited for the housing department to do verification. We have been waiting since then. They promised to give us stands to build houses. We expected that to happen, but there is nothing,” said Masiza. Masiza voweed that the protest won’t end anytime soon. “Our message is clear, we are not going to stop what is happening here until we get what we were promised. By burning tyres and closing roads, we are sending a message to the ANC and government,” he said. Masiza warned the ruling party and other political parties not to lie to residents in order to get votes. “When it comes to election season, they all come here and make empty promises. We can’t allow that to happen. Since it is elections next, we don’t want any politician here to come lie to us. We want them to know that this time, there is no space for that,” said Masiza. The Golden Highway was closed from 4am with burning tyres and rocks before police and Johannesburg Metro Police Department arrived to clear the road and control traffic. Police fired rubber bullets and tear gas to disperse angry residents. A group of women gathered in the area, holding up placards demanding land.. Nhlanhla Sikrweqe who grew up in Freedom Park said one of the issues that they would like government to deal with is electricity that was switched off without any notice. "People who stay in the shacks are not the only ones affected by the electricity issue. We who live in proper houses here also have a problem with Eskom. There would be days where there is no electricity while we are paying. That can't be accepted," said Sikrweqe. @SthembisoMedia