Listeners have heard his soothing voice on the early morning show for years, not only performing mass but also hosting talk shows, presenting news broadcasts and showcasing local music. Due to a debilitating illness, chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP), Blaser says he was finding that getting up daily at 3am to be at the radio station by 6am had taken a toll on his health. “CIDP has left me with no feelings in my fingertips or toes. It has eaten into my body,” he said. CIDP is an acquired immune-mediated inflammatory disorder of the nervous system. But Blaser said he was not yet done with radio and would still be presenting the afternoon session. The priest said he had always enjoyed the stage and media, starting his career as far back as the 1960s. He was ordained as a priest in 1967 in Stellenbosch. During his studies, he took a course in drama and it was there that he developed his love of media and the technical side of broadcasting, he said. In 1976, when television was first introduced in South Africa, he was given a slot on the SABC to relay spiritual and religious messages. In 1985, he got his own religious show, Light of the Nations. Over the years, Blaser acted in several senior positions in the church, including being appointed secretary-general and media officer for the Southern African Bishops’ Conference. “It was through that position that I obtained a lot of international media exposure and media contacts. I met the pope as well as numerous ambassadors.” He also served as provincial head of the Dominican order to which he belongs and started to “dabble” in radio in the 1980s. “I put feelers out about starting an all-Catholic radio station. We formed a board and started with the radio station from my bedroom in Troyeville (Joburg), which the Dominican order owned. It was called Veritas Productions at the time.” The station then moved to Fairland, before a building was co-purchased in 2012 with the Knights of Da Gama, a brotherhood of lay Catholics. The station, Radio Veritas, was officially launched that year, initially using the free FM 92.7 frequency, because the Independent Communications Authority of SA (Icasa) would not grant the station its own frequency. Blaser then discovered MW frequency 576, which reaches as far as afield as Colesberg in the Northern Cape, and Durban in the evenings. But the station now has to find R155000 for a monthly broadcasting licence fee. It also had to purchase its own transmitter at a cost of R250000, which was eventually funded by the Italian Catholic Bishops’ Conference and installed in Meyerton, from where it still transmits. Veritas also live-streams on the internet, after it was given a free channel - 870 - on DStv. Blaser says the station has between 70000 and 100000 listeners; broadcasts in seven different languages; and offers daily mass to those who cannot attend a church mass, as well as recitation of the rosary. The station has a 60/40 talk and music ratio, featuring many local gospel artists. Blaser says he's sad to be leaving the morning show, but will continue in the evenings. @annacox