The battle to oust Mahuma-
pelo gained steam on Wednesday after the ANC’s national working committee (NWC) conceded that governance challenges could not be fixed in the troubled province with Mahumapelo remaining at the helm. The Star understands that
the NWC agreed that Mahu-
mapelo should be formally presented with submissions by those calling for his removal, including the inter-ministerial task team mandated by President Cyril Ramaphosa to investigate issues of governance in North West. ANC national spokesperson Pule Mabe said the party’s officials were trying to secure a meeting with Mahumapelo to discuss the problems rocking the province, and his future. The provincial agriculture and health departments have been identified as the biggest victims of rampant looting and bad governance that has allegedly taken place in the provincial administration over many years under Mahumapelo's watch, while he has been linked to the Guptas. Last month, the SANDF was deployed to the province after a two-month healthcare services strike by the National Education, Health and Allied Workers' Union. The impasse had threatened the stability of the province’s health services. The inter-ministerial task team was sent to the province following the outbreak of violent protests and looting of shops by residents in Mahikeng and other towns, as they added their weight to calls for Mahumapelo to go. At least two ANC national executive committee (NEC) members, who were aware of the decision, said it would divide the party in North West to push Mahumapelo as he still enjoyed considerable support. “We are hoping that he will be willing to leave, because if he lobbies it may leave the party more divided in the province, even if he is removed,” one NEC member said. Several regional leaders in North West, including regional secretary Lopang Rothman, have vowed to defend Mahumapelo, describing the plans to oust him as part of a ploy to purge all those who did not back Ramaphosa during the ANC’s national elective conference in December. Also on Wednesday, before the sitting of the ANC NEC, Ramaphosa met with Nehawu’s national leadership, who wrote to him to give reasons why he must remove Mahumapelo and why they did not recognise the provincial task team appointed by the premier to intervene in the deepening crisis in the Health Department. Yesterday, Nehawu general secretary Zola Saphetha said Ramaphosa had welcomed their presentations, and assured the union that national government would now intervene in the province, after it placed the Health Department under administration last week. “We finally sat with President Ramaphosa, the health minister and director-general yesterday. We told him about the crisis in the province and what we thought should happen,” Saphetha said. Saphetha said the union would no longer co-operate with Mahumapelo and his team after meeting Ramaphosa and gaining understanding about how the national intervention would work.