It’s important to know how products are being produced. For the farmers at SOGA Organic, the natural, clean process their products go through is their contribution to a healthier society. “Knowing where products are grown from the time they are planted in the ground to when they are in your mouth is important. Often we don’t realise that conventional farmers are adding a lot of pesticides and chemicals to that process,” said Kirsty Hatfield, sales representative for SOGA Organic. Their products were on display at Hostex 2018, the largest Pan-African trade show in the food and hospitality sector, which attracts exhibitors from all over the world from May 6 to May 8. Hatfield added that the pesticides and chemicals were harmful not only to the earth but also to the human body. “Organic has become more important these days especially for kids and preventing diseases. We need clean products more than ever before." SOGA Organic comes in three products- ice popsicles, sachets and juices. “We squeeze it and freeze it and bring it to the consumer as a frozen product.” The products should then be defrosted and consumed within five days because there are no preservatives or colourants. “It really is the best you can get and the beauty of it is the way in which we farm. It will be sustainable for 100 years rather than 15 years where orchids have to be replaced because we are trying to feed a growing population.” The farming process for organic is much longer. “We need conventional land to sit for about three years so that the pesticides and fertilizers that were sitting in the soil can dissipate and once the soil has been tested we can plant a seed and start the whole process of organic.” Hatfield said certified organic products were imperative. “People can say they can farm organically but just how far are they fairing? Do they consider the water they are using and has that water been tested and does it contain chemicals that will get into the soil? A certified product means you are guaranteed the entire process is clean. The earth is not being harmed and the body is not being harmed once you consume it.” The SOGA Organic products are available in Dischem stores and a variety of restaurants and delis across Gauteng. “We want to get into the hospitality space and tuck shops for children. We have a healthy alternative at a really good price. We are also concerned about the plastic we use and are passionate about what we do and the benefits of the nutrition,” said Hatfield. 