The posts started from the moment the musician was spotted on stage - but this was a continuation of a concern raised since the Mamelodi singer broke into the limelight. Yamikan Janet Banda, known as Lady Zamar, is undoubtedly one of the country’s newest and finest national treasures. But she appeared to have gone too far when she appeared in a peach jumpsuit, tucked into her boots. The sight got the Twittersphere judging, commenting on her looks and saying they were disappointed she would attend the country’s biggest social event looking as though she had her neighbour design the jumpsuit for her. The outfit was designed by PineNaple Designs and had silver details and a puffy bow. The singer stole the show at the event, and according to social media users, criticising her outfit was not body shaming; it was just the Twitter streets doing their usual targeting of people. Ntsiki Mazwai said she was there for laughs. She tweeted: “I haven’t seen one nasty tweet about Lady Zamar just people having a field day laughing at the jumpsuit. And iyahlekisa yona.” In another tweet she said: “Me, Lady Zamar, Camagwini, Skolopad, Letoya and misunderstood fashion icons - same WhatsApp group.” Memes of fashion icons begging to dress her were circulated, while clips of people condemning incidents - including one of former president Jacob Zuma and Oprah Winfrey - were posted. Others shared pictures of her previous looks, saying she could do better. @BiKeR626: “Who keeps betraying Lady Zamar? This is enough.” @Thaso_luv : “Lady Zamar should be heard, not seen” Some, saying her weird sense of dress had always gone south, asked where she was even before the show started. @Mx_Moosa wrote: “Lady Zamar will be performing tonight there by #MissSA2018 stage. What is she gonna wear? I’m so stressed.” Sunday Twitter is famous for ending the weekend with “files being pulled”, with reality shows like Date My Family and Our Perfect Wedding bearing the brunt, but unfortunately this time it caught up with Lady
Zamar’s dress sense well into Monday. Some said they wanted to chuck her outfit in the dustbin: “Can someone please send me a pic of Lady Zamar’s Jumpsuit I want to delete it again,” tweeted @ZukulahCebo. Twitter user @NoChill4D went to her defence: “If lady Zamar is happy about how she dress who are y’all to tell her not to? The entitlement on this app is shocking.” While Twitter users rolled on the floor and kept the tweets coming, Lady Zamar posted several looks designed by PineNaple Designs, but Twitter users went on to say whoever dressed her “would not smell heaven”.