A security guard has been arrested for allegedly shooting dead a motorist who was just driving by. Captain Xoli Mbele of Johannesburg central police said the guard saw police chasing two suspects for theft out of motor vehicle in Fordsburg late on Thursday. “He took out his firearm and shot once,” said Mbele. “He shot a 29-year old male who was driving his red Kia Picanto. Victim was certified dead on the scene by the paramedics.” Mbele told The Star the guard was on duty on the other side of the road when he saw the two suspects running. “He just pulled out his firearm and fired one shot. Unfortunately, he shot a wrong person who was just driving his car.” The guard, a 42-year old Zimbabwean national, will face charges of murder, possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition. He will appear in court earlier next week. Mbele said police’s preliminary investigations have revealed that the firearm used by the guard belongs to a 48-year old male residing at Kanyamazane, Mpumalanga. This explains the possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition charges against the guard. Mbele said the guard told police this gun was not issued to him by the employer. “He said he brought his firearm from someone (and) for himself. 
“According to the Firearm Control Act, you’re not allowed to use your private firearm (for work),” Mbele said. “Like myself as a policeman, I cannot use my private firearm during working hours. “It’s the security company that was supposed to issue him with a firearm belonging to the company. When he knocks off from duty, it could be given to a person who’s working in that company. “But he said it’s his private firearm that he bought for himself and using it at work. All those are still under investigation, how come.” Police would not name the guard’s employer. “We don't want to mention the name of the security company for now because an investigation is underway," Mbele said. The deceased stayed in Zola, Soweto. “He was a young man with a great career ahead of him,” Mbele said. Mbele revealed that the two suspects the guard saw fleeing a police chase have been nabbed. “They are Zimbabwean Nationals between the age of 32 and 34. They are charged for theft out of motor vehicle.” The pair had allegedly stolen two duvet sets from the back of a truck. @BonganiNkosi87