Johannesburg - The killing of a patient while being attended to by medical staff has resulted in the Alexandra Community Health Centre being shut down and forcing the community to look for an alternative medical facility. The centre was shut down on Saturday following the stabbing of a man on a clinic bed as medical staff were attending to him. Allegations are that a fight broke out on Saturday evening at the local squatter camp where the man was subsequently beaten by the community. He was then taken to the centre where some of the residents followed him. According to Gauteng Health MEC spokesman Khutso Rabothata a group of people followed him to the emergency facility. While he was being attended, the group “started stabbing him to death. The staff, comprising nurses, doctors and support staff had to run for their lives and are greatly traumatised, Rabothata said. At the time of the incident, there were other patients including children who witnessed the horror. Rabothata said the centre will be opened later on Monday and that residents could use Edenvale hospital and other clinics in the area. He said when the incident happened, there were security guards in the clinic and they hope more security personnel will be increased. Meanwhile, a  39-year-old male was stoned to death allegedly by the same community members who were involved in the fight. Alexandra police said they were now investigating two cases of murder. Speaking to The Star Captain Mohlaume Mamabolo confirmed that a man died in the clinic from stab wounds. It is still not clear what sparked the fight. Gauteng MEC for Health Dr Gwen Ramokgopa has condemned the killings. “We are deeply saddened by this senseless killings and we appeal to community members to help us protect health facilities, our personnel and patients.” “We further call on the community to work with police in ensuring that suspects in this crime are apprehended. Police have been requested to have high visibility during this period and the department will ensure measures are taken to strengthen security services,” said MEC Ramokgopa. A meeting with police, the clinic management and the community was expected to take place on Monday. @SthembisoMedia The Star