“Coach Rassie is not a politician and I’m also not a politician. I’m a rugby player and all I want to do is to do well and play well and inspire not only black people but all of South Africa. I’m not only representing one group, it is everybody,” enthused the 26-year-old. He acknowledged the faith Springbok coach Rassie Erasmus had in him as a leader and a rugby player and said there was no reason to doubt why he was chosen to lead the Boks in the upcoming series against England starting on June 9 at Ellis Park. “I’ve known him (Erasmus) since I was 18 and he is straightforward with me. He had a sit-down with me and spoke to me, and that is how it is like with all the players. He told me exactly why he appointed me and I am happy with that,” the confident, cheerful Kolisi said. With incidents of racism shining a bad light on rugby, Kolisi revealed how Erasmus had recently shown the squad who they represented when they donned the jersey. “He showed us a picture on Saturday when we were playing from the back and what you see in front of you is every single race, and that is exactly who we are representing. “I can’t stand here and say I am representing this one group; I am representing the whole of South Africa. That is why we have the South African flag on our chest and our jersey.” Kolisi said his family were delighted with his appointment. “I have spoken to my family. They are chuffed and my dad is very chuffed. “He says it is too much for him because people are trying to interview him every day while he is trying to work. But they are very proud and my club, African Bombers, where I started playing, are also proud. “When I told my wife, she put the phone down, and she called me back and said: ‘Say again what you just said.’ It was obviously before it was announced. She said: ‘Call your dad,’ and I said: ‘No, I can’t tell anyone, I’m only telling you.’
I had to calm her down. I said: ‘Just turn off your phone if it makes it easier’. “To be honest, when I play my first game it will hit me that I’m a Bok captain. I’m just proud to be a captain. It means a lot to me and it’s a huge privilege and an honour. I think I will realise it when I’m playing. “I’m not going to lie and say it’s the new coaching staff and I still need to get to know them. I know Rassie well, I know coach (Mzwandile) Stick well. We won’t have excuses and say we are still getting to know each other,” Kolisi said. 