Dr Hennie Lochner, a senior lecturer in forensic and criminal investigation science at Unisa in Pretoria, who did extensive research interviewing 21 convicted robbers, believes that police have lost the fight against heists. Lochner, a former police detective, said robbers were far too advanced in executing these crimes - leaving the police with the use of informants as the only means of curbing them. “Police need to go back to the drawing board. CIT robbers are the most dangerous people in the South African criminal underworld. What makes them dangerous is their psyche that tells them that the money in the cash vans belongs to them and they will protect their money in any way necessary,” said Lochner. On Thursday last week, a group of more than 10 gunmen performed a daring and brazen robbery when they pounced on two cash vans in Boksburg. They took positions at the Atlas and North Rand roads intersection before bombing both vehicles and shooting at the guards, injuring four of them. The gunfire exchange, which was caught on camera, lasted for about two minutes before they fled the scene with an undisclosed amount of money. Police arrested seven of them on the M2 and at George Goch hostel. “That heist was well planned, and possibly all of them were involved in previous robberies. You can see in the manner in which they operated.  They were brave and each one of them stuck to the instructions. The police can use agents and informers to infiltrate the industry. “Are you telling me that the SAPS does not have the capability to infiltrate the gangs? There are about 200 robbers actively carrying out heists in South Africa,  and it still boggles my mind how 200 people can infiltrate 146000 SAPS officers but police can’t do the same,” said Lochner. Perhaps the problem was with the crooked criminal justice system, which had opened itself to bribes from gangs, he said. “In every heist, there are always people of the criminal justice system involved. These are the police, lawyers, magistrates, prosecutors and metro police. They use specific lawyers, and their modus operandi is to inform lawyers when and where the next robbery will take place. Lawyers are paid in advance and get told to be at a specific area or town where the robbery will happen,” he explained. “This is to ensure that should there be an arrest, they will have a lawyer immediately available to bail them out in court. Magistrates are paid by the family of the accused to grant bail, while prosecutors and police get bribed to destroy the evidence,” said Lochner. In cases where bribes were rejected, eliminating key witnesses became the alternative option. Muti was a big part of gangs and they normally used a few selected sangomas they trusted. With the heist specialist gangs comprising about 200 individuals, assembling a team for a hit was usually done through word of mouth, and individuals were normally hand-picked based on their bravery and other unique skills such as the ability to drive fast cars and precision in using high-calibre firearms. The actual planning could take up to five months to a year, depending on the risks involved. “A  leader is picked according to the amount of information they have about a planned heist. They know each other and they rotate recruits, hence you will never find the same group executing two different jobs. They do not contact each other after the job. They go their separate ways until someone spots another target and then they regroup with new recruits. They easily kill each other during the execution of the crime if they suspect that one of them is a liability.” A typical robber is someone who started committing petty crimes and progressed to serious crimes that afforded them a life of luxury. They spend their spoils on women and expensive prostitutes they travel the world with. Some of the money is splashed on clothes, property and second-hand expensive cars to avoid banks. Some have sent their children to study overseas. “Today’s robber is an ordinary man who will stand next to you at a shop when you are buying a drink. This crime is reserved for selected elite criminals,” he said. @lindilesifile