The 29-year-old hosted the younger entrepreneurs at his Pilusa Poultry Farm in Onderstepoort in an event intended to create a platform for interaction between successful young farmers and agriculture role players, academics and bankers. Pilusa told them he came from having nothing to selling 2 000 chickens a week. The former Tshwane University of Technology (TUT) student shared the story of his journey with the youngsters who wished to one day become influential in their chosen fields. The Department of Agriculture and Rural Development has named Pilusa best young farmer in 2017/18. In 2015 he won R600000 from South African Breweries’ KickStart Entrepreneurship competition. All that money was invested back into his farm to put it where it is today. Pilusa said he had always excelled in agriculture at school, and that motivated him to study agriculture at TUT in 2009. However, it was through his practicals in his final year that he recognised that working in the agricultural sector was something he could actually enjoy doing for a living. “I like to be honest and practical. What attracted a lot of us to agriculture is the money. Once you realise you can trade and start making money, you become more motivated. You start to see agriculture as something that is very practical. “That’s why I always say that if you are going to do something in agriculture, put love into it, otherwise you will make mistakes that will ruin your reputation. Money can always be made again, but your reputation endures,” said Pilusa. Despite his success, Pilusa has not forgotten the challenges he faced when he started, and the challenges he continues to face. He said it was important for any farmer to remain focused and realise that there is no such thing as the perfect time to start farming. “How I came into poultry is interesting because in 2014, after graduating, I leased a farm to grow vegetables. I then realised that there was a massive challenge receiving sufficient water. At that moment, I realised that I needed to invest in something that did not require a lot of water. “Luckily I had R12 000 that I had earned and saved from my time when I did practicals as a student. I used that money to buy 500 chicks, and from that moment I never looked back. Eventually I met a man who would buy all the chickens from me. From there I knew that all I had to do was raise more chickens,” Pilusa told the group of visitors that there would always be challenges in business, but dedication and hard work were important. He said it was easy for people to say they were hard working and dedicated but it was harder to make that practical. For this reason, he believed that young people who attended this event left motivated and inspired. Pilusa’s friend and colleague Thabo Ramaphala, 32, from Fine Living Chicks, also attended to support him and motivate the youngsters. He shared his journey from humble beginnings to trading thousands of chickens a week.