Several other properties belonging to the Rand West municipality were torched, including buildings and vehicles, some belonging to local business people. Police intensified their presence to prevent further destruction and warned motorists to avoid the R22 between Randfontein and Westonaria. Another protest march took place yesterday at Leratong Hospital, also on the West Rand. Security manned the entrance to the hospital as protesters barricaded the streets. Police warned motorists to avoid the R41, the R558, Randfontein Road and Adcock Street. At the time of publication, it was not clear if police had made any arrests. Mohlakeng residents yesterday embarked on what turned out to be a violent “total shutdown” of their community regarding a slew of grievances, which has left business owners counting their losses. Tsoga Randfontein organisation, the grouping which led the shutdown, claimed it submitted a list of grievances to Rand West City mayor Mzi Khumalo. The grievances include: high municipal rates; lack of job opportunities in the area; and 81 people hired in Bekkersdal, a nearby township, while the Randfontein community has allegedly been left out. George Molele, one of the leaders, said they have had a series of community meetings with Khumalo from early this month regarding their objections, which the mayor had reportedly failed to address. “So on Tuesday, we as the community leaders and community members took a decision that today (yesterday) will be Tsoga Randfontein total shutdown day,” Molele said. Entrances in and out of the township were blocked with burnt debris and other hazardous objects, and schools in the area were closed. Sam Ndobe, a construction-business owner in the area, was left reeling after four of his trucks as well as the site office were torched during the protest. Ndobe calculated the damage at roughly R1.9 million. “They burnt two TLBs (tractor-loader-backhoe vehicles), one tipper truck and one water truck. The site office was also burnt. “We have a contract to construct 3.6km of tarred roads in the area, including stormwater drains, in the township. This project will probably fall behind schedule because of this damage,” Ndobe said. He added that the project started in February and was expected to be completed by October. Mayor Khumalo said he was disappointed with the violence which occurred in the area, and asserted that people should never promote criminality. He added that electricity and water rates were determined at a national level and that he could not intervene in those processes. Regarding the 81 jobs that were given to Bekkersdal residents, Khumalo said this stemmed from the 2014 protests in the area, where people were hired temporarily to clean the township. These jobs were subsequently turned into permanent jobs this month, a process which began before he entered office in 2016, Khumalo said. @khayakoko88