Miss South Africa got hands on and creative with the designers at Soviet Denim to create her own style and brand of denim jeans. The tradition, that has been going on since 2015, will see Tamaryn Green follow in the footsteps of current Miss Universe Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters. On Thursday night the launch of Green’s denims was held in Midrand. Green has personalised her denims with a stunning diamond shaped pocket plate on the back pocket of the jeans as well as a few other key elements. "I never thought I would be launching a denim after me. Every young girl growing up never dreams that they can have this happen," said Green. Her jean collection is the "Gina" and the "Rolene". "The jeans have my name on them as well. The diamonds on the denims have been inserted to remind us of the diamond jubilee we are celebrating," added Green. She added that her journey, even though it has been a whirlwind, was made much more fun by the Soviet team. The event was hosted by the recently appointed ambassador, musician Anga Makubalo. This year saw the Miss South Africa pageant celebrating 60 years and ‘Diamond Jubilee’ was the theme of the crowning. Green has kept that in mind and together with the denim designers has brought the diamond element as well as the Miss South Africa branding through into her trim details – and even on to the swing tag that is attached to the denims. There are two pairs of denim jeans that were launched, the Gina and the Rolene, and the style of both are classic and elegant cuts – befitting the Miss South Africa organisation. The Gina is a bright indigo skinny jean while the Rolene is a jegging denim in bright periwinkle blue. Both are named after former reigning queens. “This year we celebrate four years of the #MissSASoviet Denim. The synergy between these two brands made so much in 2014. The collaboration allows us to offer our customers a limited keepsake in the Miss South Africa Denim, which we feel sets our brand apart from the other denim brands. Tamaryn, exudes everything we stand for at Soviet. We’re looking forward to what our consumers have to say about our 2018 Miss South Africa Denim offering,” said Soviet Denim managing director Caroline Hardman. The two denims will launch to the public on November 3 at Mall of Africa. 