They claim that despite nabbing eight allegedly violent criminals in the past week, the elite, live-ammunition-wielding police force were also targeting innocent people. The Star spent the weekend in the notorious Joburg township to observe the start of the extensive operation announced on Thursday by Police Minister Bheki Cele, where 141 special force members were deployed to bring calm to the community which is afflicted by gang and drug-related violence. On Friday evening when these eight criminals were caught during numerous stop-and-search operations, The Star spoke to several community members who felt they were being harassed by the police. Westbury residents said the police were aware of who the criminals were, as well as the location of “lolly” lounges, which are drug dens where women are often turned into prostitutes for them to sustain their habits. Business owner Adrian Marillier expressed anger at the manner in which police searched his pub during a raid on local businesses on Friday evening. “We appreciate that the police came to check up and are present in the community, but I felt like I was being bullied. We showed them our trading licence and all our other papers, which are in order. “It’s fine because we comply with the country’s laws, but me and other people feel that it was a bit heavy-handed,” Marillier said. “The police should go and harass the lolly lounges because they know where they are. These are places where our children get hooked on drugs, sit there and sell their bodies. “The bullying was unnecessary because everyone can see that this is a proper business - we have been trading for the better part of 15 years here,” Marillier added. The Star came across a woman with her child walking in the street after 10pm on Friday. Walking her normal route home, she concurred that the police were not targeting the “real” thugs.  However, police spokesperson Captain Kay Makhubele said the operations were there to stay and that the community had to bear with them. “We will be conducting operations irrespective of those who want it or not. This is because the majority of the community felt that they were being terrorised by these criminals in the area. “We are going to make sure that those criminals are taken to jail, or forced to move out of the area, as they are used to committing crimes in the area,” Makhubele pointed out. The eight “violent” Westbury suspects were arrested during what authorities called “intelligence-driven operations”. Makhubele said the special forces - among whom are national intervention unit members - would be stationed in Westbury for the foreseeable future. @khayakoko88