Some cases of sexual assault and murder, which hinge on evidence from DNA tests to secure convictions, have been struck off the roll because of backlogs at the police's forensic laboratory. One such case was that of friends Popi Qwabe and Bongeka Phungula, who were brutally murdered and believed to have been raped in Soweto on May 12 last year. “When will we ever find closure? I am with Bongeka’s grandmother and she is struggling to deal with what happened. All we want is justice for our children,” said Qwabe’s mother Nomsa Ngwenya. The bodies of the pair were found in Naledi and Tladi last year. However, 17 months after their deaths, their families and friends remain a long way from finding closure and justice. Qwabe, 24, and 28-year-old Phungula, a mother-of-one, were killed after boarding a taxi to Maponya Mall in Klipspruit. The friends lived together in Naledi. Two taxi operators were arrested in connection with their killings, but the double-murder case was struck of the roll in February due to pending DNA results. Police spokesperson Sergeant Vincent Mashiteng confirmed that the case was struck off the roll because of the delayed DNA results. “No arrests have been made, and police are still busy with investigations,” he said. The accused, Alec Magaula Mamothame, 43, and Sandile Nkosi, 25, denied guilt in the Protea Magistrate’s Court and told the court that they had been hijacked. They were found in possession of some of the women's belongings, including a cellphone and lipstick, which they said they had found in the taxi. Bloodstains were found in the taxi. Gauteng National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) spokesperson Phindi Mjonondwane said the case was provisionally withdrawn pending further investigations. “Once these investigations are concluded, the NPA will decide whether prosecution should proceed,” she said. Ngwenya said she had lost hope in getting justice. “The police told us to wait but we haven’t heard anything from them. It is hard to even talk about this. "I am always sick because I do not know who was responsible for their murders. I am broken. I still want to meet the people responsible for the murders so that I can ask them why they did it,” Ngwenya said. Phungula’s cousin Mduduzi Ngubane said a lack of justice meant they could not find closure. “We still want answers. We will always wonder what happened to them. If the killers are not caught we will never find closure.” For their relatives, it has been a long and unbearable journey. “We really wanted justice. We are hoping that they will reopen it. "We haven’t heard anything from the police. It is almost as if they have forgotten about it,” Ngubane said. National police spokesperson Brigadier Vish Naidoo would not say how many cases were being held up by lack of DNA evidence but insisted that massive backlogs at the laboratory were “a thing of the past”. “We are currently working on a 35 calendar days turnaround time, with great effect, to deliver on DNA samples for routine cases. “A reference index case is as old as 150 days and a crime index case is not older than 43 days. There are likely to be situations where we may experience delays but we keep this within a 10% margin,” Naidoo said. “We have established a communication channel between the NPA and the forensic environment to prioritise cases where possible, precisely to ensure that cases in court are not compromised,” he added. @smashaba