Soweto is just two months away from crowning a new queen. Earlier this month, the potential beauties were narrowed down to the top 20 at an event held at Maponya Mall. The finalists will receive life coaching and guidance from various industry specialists such as health practitioners, fashion and beauty experts as well as personalities from the entertainment sector to ensure that they are well prepared for the finale. This will allow them to gain new skills that will empower them, not only for the duration of the competition, but for the future. The winner of Miss Soweto 2018 will take home prizes worth over R100, 000 including becoming the next brand ambassador of White Star Maize Meal. One of the contestants Michelle Moumakoa, a 20-year-old from Senaoane, said she entered the competition because she wants to bring change to Soweto. “I am the right person to do something like this because I have an innovative and creative mind. I want to be able to do small things that will lead to even bigger ones for the the township and eventually for the country.” Some of the issues that she wants to highlight and find solutions for include teenage pregnancy and drug abuse in the Senaoane area especially. “It is important for parents to be open with their children and to listen to them. Having good communication with your parents can prevent a lot of these negative things and child neglect which often lead to peer pressure and a host of bad habits.” For 24-year-old marketing analyst Lebogang Tema entering the pageant is a stepping stone to greater heights. “I want to inspire young girls and empower them. I feel there is a need for positive role models in Soweto that people can look up to. I want them to look at me and see that anything is possible if you work hard- the sky's the limit.” The Meadowlands born beauty finds inspiration in US based Lisa Nichols, a motivational speaker. “She has made it to become one of the first black women to have a Wall Street listed company and broken those boundaries.” Tema said if she wins the pageant and is crowned Miss Soweto, she will be going back to her Primary school to give back. “I will go back to Tumelo Primary School and find out what needs they have and do a drive to meet those needs.” The 40 contestants who took part at the Maponya Mall event were judged on beauty, intellect and stage presence. The top 20 will compete for the crown on December 1 at the Soweto Theatre in Jabulani. @mane_mpi