Last month, two children, aged 11 and 16, were electrocuted by live wires in the informal settlement. This week, the community went on a protest march, demanding that the city deal with illegal connections and alleged syndicates that swindled them out of money for electricity. Residents admitted to The Star that they were using illegal connections and paid a monthly fee of R300 to syndicates who run the illegal scheme. City Power officials on Tuesday descended on the informal settlement and removed all illegal connections. A resident, who declined to be named, said that when he got connected, he was aware it was illegal, but was now upset to have his power cut off. “This is a serious inconvenience to my quality of life. I have been staying here since 1999 and frankly we have no choice because this is our way of life. In 2004, someone came to me and offered that I pay the amount to have my electricity running, and that was just it. “We don't know these people - but they definitely do not live here. On the last day of the month they just knock at the door to collect their money,” the man said, adding that he hoped electricity would be restored by Wednesday. Community leader Moses Makobela said the disconnections by City Power were politically motivated and that the City of Joburg was using the deaths of the two children to gain popularity. “We have tried to engage with the city since 2006 but they have been giving us story after story and now they pretend to care all of a sudden,” Makobela said. However, environment and infrastructure services MMC Nico de Jager said the area was not in the city's jurisdiction, but rather Eskom's. He said the city was working extensively to assist and secure funds to find temporary sites and accommodation for the dwellers. City Power spokesperson Isaac Mangena said those who bought stolen electricity were as guilty as thieves. Eskom spokesperson Khulu Phasiwe said the area was congested and the City of Joburg first had to relocate people so that there could be adequate spaces between houses to install electricity meters.