Wandile James Makhubu has always known he wanted to be a teacher. And once he became one, his passion for the profession led him to start one of the best-performing high schools in Gauteng. For World Teacher’s Day, which will be celebrated tomorrow, Makhubu has reflected on his 34 years in the profession.  He started his career as a maths teacher, but circumstances led him to establishing a school. In 1992 when the country was moving into a new trajectory, Makhubu took it upon himself to start educating people streaming back from exile and ensure they were ready for the future. “There were learners from rural areas and needing to be educated. There were also comrades who Nelson Mandela told to go back to school. I collected all of them and got a few unemployed teachers and started the school,” Makhubu said. “We involved as many people as possible.” The school Makhubu started is Unity Secondary School in Daveyton, which has produced some of the country’s top pupils in the past 10 years.  “At the time, the apartheid government didn’t want to give us the school. As the community we got as many high-profile people involved in it as possible. There was a high demand for the school so much that we even had to have afternoon classes,” he said. Unity Secondary School was officially started in April, 1992 and last year it was named the best performing Gauteng township school.  Makhubu said his involvement in education had been a natural one. “I taught people even before I went to college. I used to teach my peers maths because I love it. I got good grades in matric. I opted to do medicine, but I asked myself if I become a doctor what kind of doctor will I be. “I love children. I love my profession. I love working with people and serving the community. I think I am getting paid for something I like. If I were to be given another opportunity in another life I would be a teacher again.” Makhubu said one of the most important things teachers can do is unlock a pupil’s potential. “Every child has potential. If learners come to school to learn and teachers come to school to teach, they must do that. We can’t waste talent. “We thrive not only giving quantity, but quality with our results. I feel that when teachers keep children busy they can’t misbehave. These kids know that they have love from me. I always protect them. I listen to them more than I listen to the teachers, which makes me very unpopular with teachers sometimes.” Makhubu was unapologetic about his commitment to children. “I love my children and want them to achieve as much as they can. When a child misbehaves, I visit their family to find out what the problem is. Sometimes children are just trying to get attention because they need help.” Makhubu, who will turn 60 in a week, said his family was ready for him to retire. “My family members think I spend more time with the kids than them. I can’t imagine myself staying at home watching TV. I always want to be busy, especially with young people. “It is a pity that my age is catching up with me. I would love to stay longer in the profession. But the school will do well even after I am gone. My teachers are also my advisers.” The Star