Police have arrested two suspected drug lords and are looking for another two following the death of a woman in Westbury and subsequent days of violence protest from last week. Police Minister Bheki Cele told residents that Sophiatown police station will be investigated and that he was expecting a report on drug lords in the next 24 hours. This follows angry residents saying corrupt cops are in cahoots with drug dealers. They have been protesting against spiralling crime and gangsterism in their area and said Sophiatown police station has not helped their community. "Women are crying, children are in drug dens," said a resident. "We need equal representation at the police station. The coloured community is oppressed."  The resident further explained that promises have been made to the community but nothing has been done.      A young community leader also took to the stage telling Cele that whenever they call police, the station says they don't have a van. The young community leader also said if police do not help the community, they will burn down the nearby Rea Vaya station. This was followed by cheers from the crowd. Cele chastise  the comment about burning the Rea Vaya station and said police commit themselves to coming back to the community with other ministers to work on the matters the community has raised. "We will come back next week and ask other departments to avail themselves as well so you can raise your matters to all the relevant ministers at one sitting." When a young girl got onto the stage to address the community and pleased for protection from the police minister, her emotional speech prompted Cele to say he will request President Cyril Ramaphosa to allow her to come and make a presentation to the cabinet. "I am a father. If I did not feel what this young girl just said, I would be heartless. I cannot hear this alone, the entire leadership of the country will here the pain of the young people in this community." Cele said a special task force will be deligated to the Westbury area. The Star