Johannesburg - The Nelson Mandela of Motswako music is no more. This is how Keabetswe Modimoeng, a childhood friend of the late Jabulani Tsambo, affectionately known as HHP by his fans and supporters, described the loss of the music legend. “North West province has lost its greatest artistic export,”Modimoeng lamented. Before his death, it was no secret that Tsambo had endured a long battle with depression and had attempted to take his life three times in 2015. When Modimoeng was asked about Tsambo’s depression, and if he was aware of what his late friend was going through, he said: “We all have our ups and downs due to professional and personal reasons, or anything for that matter. I don’t think one would be adequately qualified to attribute any concurrence to the statements he (HHP) made years ago. “All I can say is that, as friends, we had our long calls and long moments of reflection. Jabulani was an extremely philosophical person. You could even pick this up through the artistic wealth of the songs he wrote. He was a very spiritual brother as well." He was grateful for the influence that HHP had on many successful Motswako rappers’ careers, including those of Morafe, Mo Molemi, Tuks and Cassper Nyovest, because of his kind, gentle and generous spirit. “Our last conversation was us discussing his collaboration with Teargas and Liquideep (on the track) titled Born for This, because the song is a masterpiece. Actually, we had been doing quite a lot of reflection lately on many things for some odd reason.” Modimoeng said he was glad that he had been part of his friend’s life for the time that he was granted with him, and would be eternally grateful for the priceless gift. HHP’s father, Rocks Tsambo, said at a prayer meeting held at Jabba’s house in Randpark Ridge on Thursday that the hip-hop heavyweight would be buried in Mahikeng on Saturday next week. He said Jabba’s industry colleagues were planning to hold a memorial service for him in Joburg, while another memorial service would be held in Mahikeng. The dates of the services would be announced when arrangements were finalised. The Star