When a doctor diagnosed Chanda Tembo with breast cancer last year, the only thing she could think of was her 6-year-old daughter. A nurse at the Charlotte Maxeke Academic Hospital linked her with another survivor, who made her realise that cancer was not a death sentence. “It is harsh but cancer is just a word. Early detection saves lives, especially with us black women. We don’t want to go for check-ups.” She was speaking at the launch of the Avon Justine iThemba Walkathon. “You have to fight it in your mind first and stay positive. I would get moments when I would be so down, but I would remember that this was a battle I needed to win for my daughter.” Tembo was declared cancer-free earlier this year. She will be among thousands of people affected by cancer who will walk to raise awareness at the event later this month. Stella Pike of the Wings of Hope cancer support group said anyone could get get cancer. “When I was diagnosed more than 20 years ago there were no support groups, no education. Breast cancer is something I always thought would not happen to me, I was sporty and healthy. It was a huge shock and it was frightening realising how little you know. It was much later on that I found out about Wings of Hope.” The non-profit organisation (NPO) was established in 2012 to educate the public on breast cancer and breast health, and to increase awareness and empower women and men. Pike works with a committee of about 10 breast cancer survivors, and they spend their time talking and listening to patients, supporting them, and organising guest speakers including gynaecologists, oncologists, nutritionists and surgeons to give advice and information. “We get together and share experiences, have a good laugh together and feel uplifted knowing life will carry on.” Pike said it was important for people who were diagnosed with breast cancer to know that they were not alone. With two new branches in Cape Town and in Soweto, Pike said people were desperate for education. “We have been amazed at how many men have been diagnosed and how many have been made aware that breast cancer is not just a female condition.” Nhlanhla Mokoena from People Opposing Women Abuse, another member of the cancer alliance, said it was just as important to detect domestic violence early. “These two causes need to work together. Avon has provided funding for us to help survivors. “We have two shelters and a second-stage house for women who are survivors of abuse.” The initiative first started as a fund-raiser to donate to NPOs like Cansa. In 2006, the Walkathon started first at Joburg Zoo with 500 people. Now it is a space where people can inquire about their health and also get examined. The NPO hopes to attract more than 30000 participants this year. The 13th annual iThemba Walkathon will take place at Marks Park, Emmarentia, on October 21. @mane_mpi The Star