The recent arrest of a student, who allegedly had US dollars in her hand luggage at OR Tambo International Airport last month, has raised questions about safety and security at the airport. As a result, DA's Team One South Africa Spokesperson on Immigration, Jacques Julius MP, and the party's Gauteng Spokesperson on Community Safety, Michele Clarke MPL, were expected to conduct an oversight inspection at the airport’s Police Station on Wednesday. DA Gauteng spokesperson Luthando Kolwapi said they were concerned about recent events at the airport and were trying to have a look at the challenges it is facing. Kolwapi said the Department of Home Affairs failed to provide the South African Police Services (SAPS) with the proper support and resources to ensure that illicit drug smuggling and other crimes at airport were dealt with. He said it was time that the department took responsibility for its key function of securing the country's ports of entry. Home Affairs spokesperson Thabo Mokgola said as the department,  their responsibility was to “ensure that there is a smooth transition of travellers.” Last month, South African Revenue Service (SARS) officials arrested Fayrooz Saleh who allegedly had US dollars to the value of nearly R10-million in her hand luggage when she boarded a flight at OR Tambo International Airport.The cash was packed in 50 and 100 dollar bundles in a plastic bag. The revenue service issued a statement at the time saying Saleh, of Ennerdale in the south of Joburg, was intercepted on a flight bound for Hong Kong on the Airport. Spokesperson for SARS Sicelo Mkosi had stated that Saleh's flight to Hong Kong had been sheduled to leave when the officers apprehended her. "Initially, she denied having currency in her possession, but after further questioning, she admitted that she had a substantial amount of money in her backpack," Mkosi said. He said Saleh was taken to the customs search area, where she was placed in an interview room and asked to complete a traveller card. "The passenger verbally stated that she had 650 000 United States dollars in her bag. She admitted that she was not the owner of the currency, nor could she supply any proof of ownership," Mkosi said. @SthembisoMedia