The music video to Manu Worldstar’s chart topping debut single Nalingi has been released and the 23-year-old is overwhelmed with the response. We caught up with the South African-born Congolese hip-hop star, real name Emmanuel Mumbili Mutendji, for some insight on the music video and what other plans he has in store. Your very first music video, what was the vision behind it? MWS: The goal for my first video was to create something extremely dope on an extremely low budget and I think Kuda did a really great job at achieving that. I still watch the YEWEN video today. In your opinion, does the video reflect the song? MWS: Yes it does reflect the song. The video feels like Africa, the colours on the wall, the different skin tones and body types. It's all beautiful. And Africa has so much diversity, I wanted to represent that in the video. Your song is the 4th most played track by any artist on radio right now, what does this achievement mean to you? MWS: Nalingi is simple and relatable. An 8 year old and an 80 year old know exactly what I'm talking about. On top of that, the record is fresh. Nobody is doing what I'm doing. Why call yourself Worldstar? MWS: It's a prophecy I've placed on myself. I call myself a WorldStar because I am one. Why are music videos important to artists? MWS: Music videos are important because they allow your audience to attach a visual reference to your record. It's almost like it's the final piece to the musical puzzle. People want to feel like an artist is tangible. Videos allow people to feel closer to the artist. You are very young within the industry and yet you are making solid strides. What does it take to make that first impressions that sticks within this industry? MWS: I say you have to find a ground that you can call your own and run with it. That's the toughest thing to do because there is so much music out there and a lot of ideas to consume. But if you really want to make an impact, you have to pull up with something unpredictable.   How did you prepare for this hit song? MWS: I didn't prepare. I just went in a studio session and made magic that so happened to be perfect for the moment. That's all it is. We made a song perfect for the time. What's next Manu Worlstar? MWS: Crazy features. Couple more singles. Some work with punchline will be coming out. And I've got an album that I'm working on. Not dropping anytime soon but yea. @AmandaMaliba