The girls from Westbury, Coronationville, Sophiatown and surrounding townships were taken on a camp in Lanseria to deal with problems like drug abuse, gangsterism and bullying in their schools and communities. One of the girls, Angela Malibo, a Grade 11 learner at RW Fick Secondary School in Bosmont, said the camp taught her it was possible to be friends with pupils from rival schools. “This camp taught me how to stand up for myself. It taught me about control and how to relate with other people in my community. But importantly it taught me to make friends with people from other schools.” Merita Ground, director of promotion of safety at the Gauteng Department of Community Safety, said because of gangs in the townships, pupils from different schools never interact with each other. “To hear them say that they never knew it would be possible to be friends but now see it's possible is amazing. The schools are so engulfed in the culture of the community of being so territorial that they cannot even interact. We have began to break those barriers down,” Ground said. The programme, she said, was started following violent protests in Westbury over drug and gang violence. She said that when the department went into the communities, residents asked that intervention start with the youth. This weekend, the camps focused on girls, but there will be ones for boys as well. “The camps target learners in grades 9 to 11. Next weekend we will be having a group of boys. We will also have programmes with youth who are out of school. "There is a high rate of youth who have completed matric and are unemployed. There is a need for self-development,” Ground said, adding that each intervention would take a minimum of six months. Another pupil who attended the camp, Tshiamo Ngakane, in Grade 10 at Chris J Botha Secondary School in Maraisburg, said the camp was important because she got to build new friendships with girls her age. “I got to know other girls. We got to connect and talk about how to stop the bad things that happen in our communities. I am going to teach my friends and family,” she said.