The Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities (CRL Rights Commission) has been calling for tighter regulations around churches in the past few years. Two years ago, the commission held hearings over the commercialisation of religion and the abuse of people’s belief system in an effort to better understand the sector. In a report it tabled to Parliament after the hearings, the CRL recommended that a peer review body be established for the religious sector, with appropriate legislation to regulate it. CRL chief executive Edward Mafadza said: “After we presented our report, Parliament said the CRL Commission should further engage with the religious sector to let them debate on these challenges we’ve raised so that we can come up with an amicable solution in a form of a national consultative conference.” But the commission has not been able to raise the funds to host the consultative conference. Mafadza said they held the conference every five years and it cost between R2million and R4m. Now, they could not hold it because they didn’t have the budget to do so. “We have been failing to get this type of conference because of budgetary constraints. We’ve made these presentations to request money from Parliament, the Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) Department and the Treasury, and so far no one has come to assist. It becomes a bit of a challenge.” For the 2018/19 financial year, the CRL received a R43m allocation, making it the least funded Chapter 9 institution. The most funded was the Electoral Commission of SA, which received more than R1billion. “The CRL is the least funded with an office only in Joburg. When we don’t have a provincial presence, it becomes difficult,” Mafadza said.  Mafadza said to be able to meet all their needs and expand to other provinces, the CRL needed a once-off cash boost of R216m and a yearly budget of R100m. To meet their obligation to Parliament that they reach an amicable solution with religious leaders, the CRL has handed over the report to the religious sector and asked them to be accountable. A committee led by Rhema Church pastor Ray McCauley has been formed with the hopes of hosting a bigger meeting in a couple of months. Cogta national director-general Mashwahle Diphofa said they were aware of the body's financial constraints. “The department has always supported CRL’s efforts to request for additional funding, and will continue to do so. Whenever possible, the department also assists the commission to get certain funds re-prioritised and transferred to them as part of the Adjustment Estimates of government.” DA spokesperson on co-operative governance and traditional leaders David Matsepe, who has been lamenting the underfunding of Chapter 9 institutions, said: “They did well with the budget they had in the past but now they want to expand and go further but they can’t because of financial constraints.” Portfolio committee on co-operative governance and traditional affairs member Kevin Mileham said while it might be true that the CRL doesn’t have money, it is up to them to also raise their own funds. “Cogta has made an undertaking to give them funding but their mandate allows them to fund raise,” he said.