These were the piercing words of Reuben Petersen, husband of the woman killed in Westbury after being caught in the crossfire between alleged drug dealers. Heather Peterson, a mother of six, died just a few metres from her home last Thursday. Her 10-year-old niece was wounded during the shooting that happened in broad daylight. Her death sparked a rolling community protest, with angry residents accusing local police of being corrupt and thus failing to root out drug dealing. Residents took turns on Tuesday telling Police Minister Bheki Cele just how his men and women in blue were failing the community. Cele also visited the grieving Petersen home. “My wife died innocently,” the mourning husband told him. Petersen said he prayed police would win the battle against crime in Westbury and the surrounding communities. “All I can say is, guys, you’re in government, don’t let another family (go through this),” he told Cele. “There are a number of families that have gone through this (in Westbury). I hope this can be the last. That is my prayer for the people.” His wife left behind a 4-year-old daughter, he revealed. “To lose a mother especially, it’s (the) worst of all. Four years old and she’s got to go through life with her sisters, brothers and myself. That is the thing that gets me the most. “What do I say to this child on Saturday when we have to put the mother to the grave?” asked Petersen. He said the 10-year-old, who was with his wife, was slightly wounded and had recovered physically but was still confused. A tearful matric learner, Stacey-Lee Solomon, said violent crime was so out of control in Westbury that children feared going to school. “All that we need is strict law, even if it means to cut off someone’s hand,” said Solomon. Cele told residents an investigation had begun on officers whom residents accused of being in cahoots with drug dealers. “The police will investigate those you say are corrupt and we’d like to work with you to give us information.” Cele revealed that he had deployed members of the tactical response team to patrol Westbury streets. He said two suspects allegedly involved in the mother’s fatal shooting have been arrested. “There are two that are still outstanding. We’re requesting between 48 and 72 hours to apprehend them,” said Cele. @BonganiNkosi8 The Star