Tapuwa Moore never wanted to fall pregnant and the thought of having an abortion crossed her mind because she had been a lesbian all her life. Moore, a writer and director, will this week uncover her journey through her play titled The Pregnant Lesbian. She said the concept of the theatrical piece is her response and retaliation to people's perception and ignorance to lesbian pregnancies and their journeys of motherhood. “People find it strange and it is a taboo for us (lesbians) to be pregnant; the only reason they actually come to baby showers is to confirm if we really are pregnant,” Moore said. Despite voices from the outside endangering her relationship with her 21-year-old son, she is determined to do things right by him. Her main hurdle was raising him in the society that enforced homophobia. “I love him and I wish he finds his way. I never wanted to have a child and the person who impregnated me was an older figure. It is painful that I fell pregnant at the young age of 20 during my first sexual encounter. The only reason I slept with the man was because I needed to survive and fend for my siblings as my mother was hardly around. It is what young girls in Soweto do to survive,” she said. The 41-year-old also added that she was still trying to make amends with her son as their relationship remained unstable. “It's still a bit tricky because he gets told that his mother is gay and I'm slowly navigating the entire situation. I just hope he will understand my sexuality at some point and view me as his mother without the 'gay' label,” she said. The narrative is located in the township. It looks at the notion of intolerance, following the life of a lesbian woman who was impregnated by her rapist. “It is written and directed by Moore and the production is one of two solo works presented by Johannesburg theatres as a means of nurturing scriptwriting,” said MMC for community development Nonhlanhla Sifumba. “The play interrogates a vital issue within the South African milieu and through it the Soweto Theatre hopes to stimulate dialogue around this vital issue, through the cathartic practice of the arts,” she said. The play will be staged at the Soweto Theatre from Thursday to Sunday. The Star