Cape Town - Several officials and politicians in the North West could be in serious trouble with the law after MPs backed a report for their prosecution in theft and corruption. This was after the Auditor-General, Kimi Makwetu, had found irregular expenditure of R16 billion over a number of years. The irregular expenditure had increased from R8.6bn in 2013 to a staggering R15.3bn in 2017. This led to the collapse of the provincial government and the intervention by the national government. Members of the ad hoc committee looking into the intervention in the North West on Tuesday backed the report on the intervention. The ad hoc committee said, as part of its work, it recommended that politicians and officials implicated in wrongdoing in the North West be prosecuted. It did not name any politician but said those found to be responsible for wrongdoing should be charged and sent to prison. Chairperson of the ad hoc committee, Charel de Beer, said they started their work early this year after President Cyril Ramaphosa ordered for an intervention in the North West. The ad hoc committee had met with several stakeholders including communities in the North West, the provincial administration and the inter-ministerial task team. The ad hoc committee discussed the report as members of the ANC in the North West protested outside Luthuli House in Joburg on Tuesday against the decision of the party to disband the provincial executive committee. Disgruntled members of the ANC in the North West who are aligned to former premier and chairperson Supra Mahumapelo have complained about the ANC's decision to dissolve the structure. Mahumapelo has joined other members of the PEC who are challenging the decision of the national executive committee to disband the PEC. Mahumapelo's case will be heard in the high court in Joburg on Friday. The ad hoc committee said it would continue to monitor the situation in the province despite supporting the report, including the recommendation that those responsible for corruption be prosecuted. Seiso Mohai of the ANC said they supported the work done by the ad hoc committee. They also supported other institutions involved in stabilising the province. Other members of the ad hoc committee said they agreed with the recommendation that anyone involved in corruption be criminally prosecuted. The ball was now in the court of the law enforcement agencies to act against those behind the theft and corruption. Political Bureau