Provincial education authorities are on a crusade to reduce multigrade schools, Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga has revealed. These are schools in which learners from different grades are taught in one classroom, compromising quality of education. All such schools are in farming and rural communities. There were 5339 multigrade schools in 2015. Responding to written questions in Parliament, Motshekga indicated teachers battled to handle these classes. “Most teachers in multigrade schools have no formal training in multigrade teaching and consequently have limited skills in managing different content at different levels as well as classroom management of multiple groups,” said Motshekga. The department joined forces with unions in March this year to train 2083 teachers and 214 subject advisers in multigrade teaching, she said. “The training is geared to equip teachers with skills and knowledge to mediate the curriculum effectively and efficiently in multigrade schools.” But provinces also have a campaign to close multigrade schools and merge them with others, Motshekga said.  “The provincial education departments, supported by the Department of Basic Education, are immersed in the rationalisation process aimed at discontinuing schools that have become unviable due to enrolment decline, while still guaranteeing the right to basic education of all learners. “Some schools with multigrade classes with very low enrolment fall in this category,” Motshekga said. She would not commit herself to a deadline, shifting the ball to provinces. “All provinces have drawn up plans with timeframes indicating the number of schools targeted for both merger and closure,” she said. Motshekga was responding to questions by DA MP Nomsa Tarabella-Marchesi, who told The Star she was shocked by what she saw in a school. “I asked that question because I visited Willows Primary, a farming school just outside Mangaung,” she said. It has fewer than 125 learners and in multigrade classes. In one class you had Grades R, 1 and 2 in a single class. “This is not particularly because the community is small. We discovered the school taught in multigrade classrooms because it doesn’t have enough classrooms,” said Tarabella-Marchesi. “They are unable to accommodate more learners. They basically compromise and put them in one class.” Tarabella-Marchesi said she ascertained Willows was not on the list of those earmarked for “rationalisation”. “The school is not regarded as a non-viable school. So, it’s not included in that list,” she said.  “Obviously, the concern is: do we have enough classes in the school? The department has to provide the infrastructure.” The Star