Johannesburg- Dubbed the biggest social serving company in the world, Avon empowers over 6 million women by giving them an opportunity to sell products and run their own businesses. On Wednesday, the beauty brand launched their first ever pop-up store in Sandton City. “We have realised that we aren’t as accessible to a very wide audience. We get a lot of social media interactions with comments from people asking about how they can get Avon as we aren’t in store. Our model is not to go direct to the customer, we believe in empowering our representatives and making sure that they are part of an earning opportunity because that is what we stand for,” said Avon South Africa’s head of integrated marketing communications Precilla Kalogeropoulos. “With this launch we collaborated closely with our sales department and our representatives and leaders out in the field to come up with a concept that would not remove them from the channel but give wider audience accessibility to our brand. To touch, feel, experience and connect immediately at one of these events with a representative for future purposes. That is how we have brought this to life.”      It's all about 'democratizing beauty' - Avon CEO #avonbeautystore pic.twitter.com/fvowmlB221  — Aisha O. (@Aishaandlife) 
 October 3, 2018  Kalogeropoulos said the pop-up stores would not be in the same location for a long period, at maximum five days. “We then move around because we want to bring this to life to a wide audience.  We have physical pop up structures and they will stay in malls and then also a mobile trailer that moves around to markets and business parks.” The pop-up beauty stores will target Johannesburg, Pretoria, Cape Town and Durban then based on the success of these Avon will look at how to roll the stores out in the coming year. Managing director Mafahle Mareletse said many women who used high premium products were pleasantly surprised with the security of the Avon products after trying them. “What you get out of Avon, you can get from any other premium brand. Women switch to us because they realise they don’t have to spend a fortune to look beautiful, Avon is for the saving customer.” The Sandton City pop-up beauty store will be open to customers until Sunday. @mane_mpi 