Johannesburg - Angry family and community members gathered at the sentencing proceedings of convicted sex pest Collan Rex. This anger came after the State said on Wednesday that important reports that should have been completed over a month ago had yet to be finalised. This matter further stalled the conclusion of Rex's sordid saga. The matter is being heard at the South Gauteng High Court sitting in the Palm Ridge Palmridge Magistrate's Court in Ekurhuleni. Prosecutor Advocate Arveena Persad said the information she received was that the reports had yet to be completed, despite there being eight probation officers who had been appointed to compile a report to be presented for Rex's sentencing. Persad added that the reports would be finalised by November 27. The delay drew the ire of Judge Peet Johnson, who said he was "very upset" because officers "had ample time to complete these reports". Judge Johnson said he reluctantly postponed the case and asked the prosecutor to convey the court's displeasure for the tardiness of the probation officers. Rex was convicted last month of 156 counts of sexual and physical assault on more than a dozen schoolboys aged between 13 and 16 in a reign of terror which lasted from 2015 to 2016. The sex pest is a former water polo coach and hostel master at Parktown Boys' High School, where he was employed during the years he committed his acts. It was packed courtroom during the proceedings, with dozens of supporters coming out to back the victims.Supporters charged at Rex's family after his sentencing was postponed, which led to a fierce confrontation about how the paedophile's family had raised "a rapist". Steve Mabona, the spokesperson for the Gauteng Department of Education, was also confronted by angry family members at the court. The department was accused of being complicit in enabling Rex's crude behaviour. Mabona told The Star that the department would await the sentencing of Rex, and hoped this would bring closure to the families.  He said he understood the parents' frustrations, which is why he didn't retaliate to the confrontation. The Star