That’s a holy cause. Now is the time for all good persons-of-any-gender to come to the aid of the rhino. Its persecution is revolting, its assailants beneath contempt. But among the two million people in the 400km swathe around the South African borders of the Kruger, the view is not so one-way. Some claim it’s almost one-way the opposite way. To householders, the rhino poacher is a hero. To kids, he’s a role model and a career choice. Recently a landmine was found and dismantled, primed to wipe out a gamekeeper patrol. Shortly a local viewed as successful and generous is coming to trial for rhino poaching. Jitters occur over how to handle his army of supporters. The park is not eager to give the world’s screens another round of tourist tweets on highwaymen holding up buses while burning barricades melt the tarmac. It’s hard to make out how much full-frontal poverty there is. I’ll be taking a walk through there soon, and will give you some real info. What seems real is a staggering ability to survive on a share of granny’s grant, baby’s grant or your sister’s baby’s grant. There are signs of opulence, too, though these come mainly in the form of multiroomed houses in a state of suspended construction. I’m told that any sign of opulence denotes one of four things - a civil servant, a bottle store, taxi owner, or, you guessed, a poacher. That means one or two civil-service openings for top-of-the-class kids. Most expect no job, ever. Ho-hums and glazed eyes greet ecology types ladling out the message that protecting wildlife is a burning need. To ask that community to acquire that attitude is a big ask, requiring input profound and deep. Which is why I got enthused at a Skukuza conference last week, surrounded by tourism larneys in khaki while my friend Paul punted a plan. Bottom line is three-in-one, protect tourism by preserving wildlife by prioritising people. But with a twist - recast this stuff with incentives to make it self-perpetuating profit-making business. Unless the Big Five are to become the Big Four, possibly the Big Three later, Limpopo people must see conservation as vital. Yus, a tall order! But what else? Sponsored soup kitchens and schoolbooks have admirable value but leave intact the perception that living animals are for tourists while dead ones benefit the locpops, local people. Changing that needs a miracle. But it’s an indispensable miracle so better get on with it. It can only lie in the principle that business makes better business by cutting locpops in to the point of economic take-off. Which the Kruger community - park side and people side and six-star game palaces in the middle -- might just have the heft (and vigour) to pull off. Thirty years ago I saw a benign, high-minded, attempt to source tourist eggs from indigenous coops. It failed when the lodge tired of telling Klaus from Koln “sorry about your omelette but Mathebula’s hen had an off day”. It wasn’t callousness that steered the contract to Rainbow Chicken. It was survival;  2030s survival, 2040s, beyond, needs more - deeper, fuller, a long way further. Very big ask. South Africa has always been about getting the impossible going. Go, Paul!