JOHANNESBURG - Almost 10 000 than Grade 12 learners across Gauteng commenced their National Senior Certificate (NSC) examinations on Monday without a glitch.    The Gauteng Department of Education (GDE) has about 107 258 full-time and 43 061 part-time candidates for matric examinations. A total of 9 667 learners wrote their first exam on Monday. Most of the candidates will start writing on October 22 in about 1 004 centres across 15 Districts in Gauteng. GDE spokesperson, Steve Mabona said the number of matric candidates has increased by 229 learners compared to last year. "It is important noting that Gauteng recorded the highest figure of enrolment for the NSC examinations in the country," he said.  "In preparation for the successful examination period, chief invigilators and invigilators for all examination centres have been officially appointed and trained. An extensive network of monitors has been established across the province. The said monitors are derived from Head Office, District and other stakeholders, to ensure that the processes relating to conduct, administration and management of the examinations is fair, credible and have integrity."   Mabona said the department has partnered with law enforcement agencies for the daily securing of question papers and answer books, and to also necessitate a smooth distribution and collection thereof.   "We have also done everything possible in ensuring that our learners have been given the best possible advantage to do well in these examinations. There were subject specific interventions implemented throughout the year. "   The Secondary School Improvement Program (SSIP) was utilised as a major strategic intervention for progressed and high-risk learners. SSIP has been running since the beginning of the year during Saturdays and school holidays to sustain the improved Grade 12 performance over the past years. "As part of our final push strategy to ensure the preparedness of learners, we also implemented Matric Revision Camps across the province. These camps are meant to provide opportunities for intensive study and drill sessions aimed at increased content coverage as well as intensive exam practice and preparation."    The said program is designed to achieve two goals:   1.    Content: Key topics that have not been taught or sufficiently covered but have high likelihood of being included in exams and; 2.    Exam Preparation: Drilling of learners in exam questions and/or exam response techniques for exam questions.   GDE has a standing agreement with Child line to assist learners who experience stress due to exam pressure or after receiving results. Learners can phone Child line on their toll-free 0800 055 555 or 011 645 2000 (during working hours) for counselling assistance. Parents or members of the community are also urged to use these contact details for learner support. The Grade 12 results will be released on 4 January 2019 at schools and will give us a clear indication on our performance as our aim is for learners to compete on an international scale, especially in Maths, Science and Technology. "We would like to wish all our Grade 12 learners the best of luck and assure them of our full support. Learners are urged to conduct themselves with honesty during the examination process. Cheating may result in a criminal record," said Mabona.   Gauteng MEC for Education, Mr Panyaza Lesufi, said: “To all learners, this is an opportunity for you to show the world your capabilities, and this should be a milestone to open opportunities for your future endeavours. Tears and sweat tastes the same but will get you different results. Tears will get you sympathy and sweat will get you change, best wishes to you all”. The Star