Johannesburg - A  video has shown a scrap metal collector brazenly uprooting a steel barrier in front of a restaurant, taking it off and casually walking away in broad daylight. This happened in front of Wimpy in Emmarentia on Saturday morning. Nazir Valacaia said his manager was opening the restaurant when he noticed that a balustrade, a steel barrier,  had been stolen outside the shop. “He noticed that there was something missing outside the show. He informed me about this and we looked at the CCTV footage which shows a scrap collector damaging the property and stealing,” he said.     Watch: A food restaurant owner in Emmarentia was left shocked and angry after a scrap collector damaged his property and stole a balustrade on Saturday morning. pic.twitter.com/eWIyVaRp5A — The Star (@TheStar_news) 
 October 29, 2018  In a 1:37 second video, the unknown man is seen pulling a trolley. After some minutes, he walks towards the balustrade and loosens one of the bolts then starts tugging at the barrier until it becomes loose. It falls to the ground and he pulls it out of the ground, takes it and then disappears. Valacaia has since opened a case of damage to property. “I opened a case with the SAPS. I had this balustrade for over five years and I never thought this would happen. It cost me R10 000 to erect then; I am not sure how much it costs now," he said. “It is sad and frustrating to see such happening. We are running a business." Police spokesperson, Captain Xoli Mbele said it was important that people report such incidents. “People must report the suspect to the police when they see someone stealing. We usually make arrests when they steal copper,"  Mbele said Mbele encouraged the community to report any suspicious people and activities to the police. He said so far there hasn't been arrests lately relating to scrap collectors damaging and stealing metal objects. Johannesburg Metro Police spokesperson Edna Mamonyane they have in the past arrested scrap collectors and also shutdown scrap yards in the CBD. “This is not a new trend; it has been happening and as law enforcement agencies, we are dealing with it. We can’t allow this to continue to happen,” she said. @SthembisoMedia