Phamotse has now authored a book about being gagged on social media and her experience following a court battle with celebrity couple Basetsana and Romeo Kumalo after a series of tweets claiming there was “a sex tape involving the husband of a well-known media mogul with a younger rapper". The court ordered her not to make comments about Basetsana on social media in future. But this has not deterred Phamotse. In the last three months, she has written a book about the court case. In an exclusive interview with The Star on Tuesday, Phamotse revealed that she will launch the untitled book in February there will be a  "reveal party" in Fourways next week Thursday. “I started writing the book earlier this year. When I was attending the court case, I looked into what our legal system is saying about social media. In the book, I share my experience on how I overcame public humiliation and growing as an activist. “I also talk about the case, addressing the allegations. A lot of people had different views about the case. We wanted to issue a statement but I decided not to,” she said. Phamotse said she learnt a lot from the case and that she wants to show people what happens when people with influence “get a way out”. “It was a traumatising experience. Many people who have got influence in the public eye sometimes misuse their power and they want to suppress people's voices,” she said. In July, Phamotse got Twitter tongues wagging by alleging to have seen a sex tape involving the husband of a well-known media mogul with a younger rapper. Phamotse had tweeted: “Just overheard a painful conversation, a female TV mogul...Pleading with one of my girls to not share videos of her drunk and her husband rim**ng a celebrity boy!!!!!!!!! What the hell!!!! Kanti what kind of marriages do we have now!!! I have asked to see this video (sic).” Magistrate Helen Banks ruled that Phamotse harassed Basetsana in a tweet which made no direct mention of the former beauty queen. Drawing their own conclusions from her tweet, social media users threw Basetsana and her husband into the mix. The magistrate also ruled that Phamotse would be arrested if she violated the order. Phamotse said she was never sued. She said Kumalo legal team couldn't prove evidence in court, hence the matter wasn't taken to the high court. Phamotse, who also accused the government of not doing enough to protect ordinary social media users, did not have regrets about the controversial posts and that she would do it again. The book will be available for pre-order from December 1.