Thursday evening’s show, taking place at Melrose Arch, will feature Nao Serati, Sibusiso Mahone, Matte Nolim, Rich Factory, Khosi Nkosi and Sheria Ngowi among other talented creatives. An African extravaganza, with designs from artists based in Tanzania and Rwanda, and looks from AntiArch based in China, will kick start the four-day experience. Nao Serati is a South African athleisure brand based in Johannesburg. Founded by designer Neo Serati Mofammere in 2014, the brand specialises in unisex garments while Mahone’s looks explore a more street style feel of experiences in the concrete jungle through his looks. Haute Baso is described as an ethical fashion brand for the modern individual looking for thoughtful, simple and functional designs. Using fashion as a vehicle for positive change towards the empowerment of women and youth, the founders Candy Basomingera and Linda Mukangoga are contributing to the preservation of culture in Rwanda. They draw inspiration from the culture of Rwanda and merge traditional methods with new techniques to create pieces that are timeless. Fashion design extraordinaire, Orapeleng Modutle, made it onto the Forbes 30 under 30 list and his luxury Style Avenue brand is tailored to make anyone, wearing his designs, perfect. Tanzania’s Walter Thomas Ngowi is a fashion designer and founder of the Sheria Ngowi brand whose work is inspired by the past. His suits are reminiscent of the 1930s and up to the early 1970s cuts for comfort. He blends modern with classic vintage looks. AntiArch founder Oliver Weiyu Zhang is based in Shanghai, China. An architectural design graduate, Zhang’s love for fashion was enhanced while living in Japan. The designer embraces deconstruction techniques. Irmgard Mkhabela holds a master of fine arts in fashion and textiles design degree from the University of Borås and apprenticed, in couture and lingerie, in Paris and Lyon, France. This weekend will see a host of African and Asian designers take over Melrose Arch. SA talent will include David Tlale, Tuelo Nguyuza, Tsotetsi KL, Quiteria & George, Marianne Fassler and more. African Fashion International will take place from today until Sunday.