But, he neither holds any grudges against police, nor does he want any monetary compensation for the pain he endured. “I don't wish any retribution on the police. I did this because I wanted to help my community. I would happily be shot again if it means I can help to bring peace and security to my community,” Marillier said. He was speaking to The Star on Saturday inside his bar in the troubled Joburg township of Westbury. Marillier's face gained prominence after he was pictured, bloodied and bruised, following last Monday's running battles between the community and the police. Marillier showed The Star two rubber-bullet wounds - both on his right thigh - and the four stitches above his right eye where he believes he was struck by shrapnel during the community protests. The 54-year-old Marillier, who is revered in Westbury and has patrons streaming into his bar, said he was active during the heady apartheid days of the 1980s, and what he saw last week reminded him of that bleak era. He had to act to calm the situation, Marillier said. “I thought to myself, let me go and just cool things down because, if you fight, you can't talk, and we needed to get our message across. This community needs help. “My son and I went towards the crowd and I told the people to stop throwing stones because I wanted us to speak to the media so we could get our message across,” he said, adding that this was when he got shot by rubber bullets. “But I carried on after I was shot and managed to get the people to calm down and stop throwing rocks. However, it escalated on the next corner, where my son and I decided to calm things down there because the community was very aggressive with the police. “That's when I was struck on my face. I think it was a piece of shrapnel which caught me,” Marillier said. Asked whether he lived in fear in Westbury, Marillier was emphatic: “No, I'm not scared of anything. “I only worry about my nine grandchildren and the children of this community. That's why I'm still active because I can take care of myself, but what about the children?” @khayakoko88