Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi has assured parents that all their children entering Grades 1 and 8 will be placed in the province’s schools by the end of October. Lesufi, who was speaking with Radio 702’s Bongani Bingwa on Monday morning. Many parents have made it clear that they were not happy with the online application system and also worried that their children had not been placed yet though they had already applied in May. However, Lesufi said October was the month that was open for registration and that parents did not have to panic. “The reason why we started in May is purely because we wanted to deal with this matter appropriately and identify areas that need intervention." Lesufi said  the department had received 371 269 application for both and Grade 1 and Grade 8. He said they had already placed 217 397 children in Grade 1 and 99 099 in Grade 8. He said they were yet to find space for 54 773 children and they they would definitely do so at the end of October. "As the department, we  told parents that by the end of October every child that applied will be placed. The only limitation might be we might not place your child at the school that you applied to but they will be placed,’ he said. Lesufi  also revealed that schools that had received most of the applications were King Edward School (KES), Parktown Boys and Parktown Girls as well as the Pretoria Girls High. One of the parents who could not get joy out of online application and had to go an alternative route is Bethuel Mangena. The 39 year old father of two was recently told that he could not take his son, who's entering Grade 1 next year, to the school that he applied to. Although that school in in his neighourhood, he ended up taking him to a private school which is far from his house. “I applied two days late online because as a first time parent doing this, I was not sure of the dates. “The school sent an SMS saying that I must come and submit necessary documents which I did. After that I waited  but [there] was no response. After a few weeks, I got an SMS saying that they will no longer accept documents that are outstanding for parents who didn’t submit on time,” he said. Mangena said he was confused as he had gone to the school to submit the documents  soon as he got the sms. He contacted the department and he managed to get an appointment with one of the officials. “I went to the education department and they told me that the school had not received the documents. However, I had proof that I had sent them. They said I must wait and that they will find me an alternative school. Unfortunately the school that was available...I didn’t like it. I decided to take my child to a private school. "It (the school) is expensive but I really want him to get the best education that I didn’t get,” Mangena said. @SthembisoMedia