The violence that prevailed in the Joburg west township in the past few days seemed to have died down when The Star visited the area on Monday. The violence was triggered by the killing of a Heather Peterson, a mother of six, who was shot and killed in broad daylight two weeks ago just a few metres from her home. Peterson was walking with her 10-year-old niece at the time who was also wounded. Even the string of meetings for the planned full scale “shutdown” in Westbury, Newclare, Ennerdale and Eldorado Park have not triggered any fresh protests. Four police officers were seen patrolling on horseback and two other vehicles were monitoring the street. Last week, Police Minister Bheki Cele unleashed Amaberete (tactical response team) and other intelligence agencies to deal with gang-related crimes, drug dealings and general crime. This resulted in the arrest of eight suspects on Friday. However, the community remains split in the police efforts to rid the area of bad elements. Darian Breda, a former drug addict, said he was born and raised in Westbury and the "vicious cycle of crime continues because the police don't take action against criminals". “For now, the situation is calm but it will not last. There is always a new type of drug manufactured. Young boys are getting recruited by these dealers and the problem does not start here, it is bigger than what we see and experience on the surface. “The drugs are being brought in from the prisons in Cape Town and sold here. The police are on the payroll of drug dealers, so how do you think justice will prevail,” the 44-year-old said. Another resident shared Breda's public servants. “The only way to survive here or be something is to sell drugs. Police look the other way. It is school holidays and my three-year-old daughter is forced to just sit in her bedroom. Police patrols will not change anything,” said the 27-year-old. He also said many young people in the area were unemployed and the government kept making false promises so they were left with "no choice but to hustle”. Julius Parker, 23, a car guard from Ennerdale, said his job was keeping him away from the streets and a life of crime and drugs. “But most of the people I know from this side who take drugs say they buy their drugs in Westbury, because they are stronger and have a kick." The Star