Johannesburg - A major violent gangs clean-up operation has been launched in the crime-besieged Joburg suburb of Westbury, where over 140 cops will hunt down 20 most wanted criminals. Police Minister Bheki Cele on Thursday visited the area along with a bevvy of police and metro officers, many of whom are highly-trained personnel, to tell the community of the major operation. Addressing community members at the Westbury Sports Grounds, which is adjacent the local primary school, Cele announced that police had identified 20 suspected violent criminals, the names of whom have been given to the elite Tactical Response Team (TRT) for capture. The TRT, alongside the Joburg Metro Police Department, form part of the 141 specialised officers, 10 of whom are intelligence personnel, who have been deployed to Westbury to bring calm to the community, Cele said. The minister added that these officers would be stationed until he felt that the situation had stabilised. The operation follows a week of mostly violent protests in the area over what the community felt was uncontrolled gang-related criminality in Westbury. Speaking to officers shortly before he left, Cele said the operation was a result of community pleas for intervention, and the minister implored police to work well with the public to fight crime. "All officers know that to fight crime you have to work well with the community," Cele stressed. He said the area was rife with murderers who terrorised innocent people and ordered the police to "flush them out" so that people could live better. Asked by the media whether he had neglected Cape Town, which is also overrun by gang violence, Cele rejected this assertion, saying Operation Thunder had taken roughly 300 police officers from other provinces to fight gang violence in the Mother City. "So, maybe the people are talking about Cape Verde or something, because we are also working," Cele said, with a wry smile on his face. National Police Commissioner General Khehla Sitole was with the minister, and also expressed confidence that calm would be brought to Westbury. @khayakoko88 The Star