It’s not every day that one event can rope in at least 10 media personalities for a cooking weekend away. But the team at White Star Maize managed to bring together singers and actors and presenters for a weekend in Witbank, Mpumalanga, to take part in the annual event. Actress and chef Lucia Mthiyane has judged the event since its inception. “I’ve been part of it as an ambassador and I take part in most of their activities. Looking at the celebrities who take part in the cook-off, I have seen them grow and it’s amazing to see how many people want to be part of it,” said Mthiyane, the cook-out head judge. She has has come up with about 100 recipes over the years. “We used to run cooking classes and I would teach people how to incorporate maize meal into their desserts.”      She said her go-to summer dish was one that incorporated the "FEB" (flour, egg and bread coating) in a dish. “You dip your calamari and chicken into the flour with some White Star mix, then the egg and then the bread coating, and deep-fry it. The crispness is fantastic. You can use fresh fish to make fish fingers and make pap balls as well. Using the 'FEB' skill, you can put a cheese block in the pap ball and deep-fry it. When you cut it, it oozes cheese.” The cook-off saw five teams of four cook a starter and main course using the maize meal as a key ingredient. Pap Capture scooped the R50000 prize money. A social media holiday prize was also given to the participant who publicised the event most creatively. Dr Musa Mthombeni won a trip to Zanzibar under the theme African Paradise. Actress Miranda Ntshangase said it was exciting to cook with industry friends. It was her second cook-off. "It’s fun coming to relax and let everything disappear for a weekend,” she said. Ntshangase teamed up with actress Manaka Ranaka and presenters Mthombeni and Andile Gaelesiwe to make the best dishes of the day, according to the judges. “My favourite dish is couscous with lamb stew. My husband loves it. That’s my signature dish.” For summer, her go-to snack is watermelon. “I love fruity watermelon with feta and mint drizzled on top as an entrée or a snack for friends. My hubby loves cheese platters.” Ntshangase said being part of the winning team last year was beginner's luck, but winning again this year meant she was made for this. Akhumzi Jezile was honoured posthumously in a video during the prize-giving ceremony. @mane_mpi