Dream chaser Ami Faku isn't letting anything stand in the way of her musical future. The 25-year-old doesn't take any part of her journey lightly. “I have always wanted this career but it only hit me a few years ago to do something about it and start hustling.”  The Ezinkoya, Port Elizabeth, lass finally got her foot in the door after a successful audition for M-Net reality singing contest The Voice last year. She made it to the Top 16. Before that, Faku, whose real name is Amanda, used to sing in school choirs and record songs for her friends in the neighbourhood. “I decided to do something about my dream. That’s when things started to brighten up for me. I would always hear from my friends that I can go far and constantly heard great reviews. So I would keep recording but never perform. The first time I did that was with The Voice.” Faku said her time on the show was one of the greatest experiences of her life and that she got some great lessons from it. Now that she has released her first single, Ndikhethe Wena, through her label Vth Season, she is ready to introduce her sound to music lovers. “My sound is a mixture of everything. It’s young, soulful, truthful and fresh  "We are currently working on a lot of songs. I don’t want to call it an album yet because we still want to push the name and let people know about me.  "I have a lot of songs already, about eight to 10 that have been recorded.” She said her sound represented what she wanted to do. “It’s not about what is trending or what the market is expecting. The sound is expressive, it’s not influenced by anyone.  "With the single, the beat needed it to be a positive love story. It submits to love and vulnerability. That’s how love should be.” Faku, who travelled to Joburg for her music career, is currently in her second year of studies for an accounting degree.  Her main aim is to promote her music positivity.“Never be afraid of the challenges. I am not afraid to express my feelings Have faith and never be ashamed of yourself.” @mane_mpi  The Star