The Gauteng department of Education has sent officials to a Benoni school to get to the bottom of a row between it a Muslim pupil over his beard. This follows The Star's report on Tuesday that Ashton International College’s Benoni branch was refusing to allow a Grade 8 pupil to grow his beard which his parents said was part of his Islamic practices. The boy's parents thought the actions of the school were “unconstitutional” and “racist” and also denying Muslim learners their religious rights. They even threatened to take the beard battle to court. Steve Mabona said they had decided to send their officials to the school to get to the bottom of what was going on because no child should not be denied education. He also said it was important to for them to go and look at the school's code of conduct and check whether it does not contravene the Constitution "because anything that does is a problem". "Right now all the information that we have is what we got from the media so we really can't rely on media reports; we need to go an investigate ourselves so that when we respond to inquiries it will be on what we know. "The school will have to explain what is going on and clarify the issue." The school, on the other hand, insisted that they were an “independent Christian school” where all prospective parents were informed of the institution's ethos. Ashton College's executive director Mark Brown had stressed in a statement that the school was Christian and private. “They (parents) accept, sign and agree to our school ethos and code of conduct voluntarily before their child is registered at Ashton International College. “While Christian, our school is multicultural, in that students of all faiths are welcomed, and all our students adhere to the same uniform and code of conduct requirements,” Brown said. Mabona said while the school was indeed private, they as the department were in charge of the education in the entire province and not only responsible to public schooling hence they were trying to mediate and find a solution to the debacle. 