Matthews' brothers, Lasch and Steve Mabelane, sat in the gallery at the high court in Joburg on Monday where the case against apartheid cop Joao Roderiques for the 1971 murder of Ahmed Timol was due to continue. Both Matthews and Timol plunged to their deaths from the notorious police station during the apartheid era. Matthews, from Soweto, died in 1977 after his arrest. The apartheid regime declared both their deaths, like others in custody, to be suicides. The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) charged Roderiques with murder and defeating the ends of justice following an inquest into Timol’s death. Judge Billy Mothle ruled in the Pretoria High Court last year that Timol was killed by members of the security branch and did not commit suicide by jumping to his death from the 10th floor of John Vorster Square 46 years ago. He recommended the prosecution of Roderiques, 80, who was present when Timol died. On Monday Judge Ramarumo Monama announced that Roderiques’s trial would commence on January 28 next year. His application for a permanent stay of prosecution would be heard before the trial date. Judge Monama gave interested parties until November 5 to file papers against or in favour of the application. Outside court, Matthews' brothers told The Star the NPA had restored their hopes that his killers would be brought to justice. “The NPA has been very co-operative and has shown willingness to help us. As we are speaking, we rest assured that evidence is being collected. Also, the NPA called us to make statements. I think we will go to court and hear evidence about how our brother died," Lasch said. Steve said their dad passed away this year not knowing how his son died. “He was completely hurt." Lasch said  all the family wanted was closure. “We need the truth. We’re not happy about the report on our brother's death. It’s lies that he committed suicide. The court will sort that out.” NPA spokesperson Phindi Mjonondwane said the Mabelane brothers were among the families being assisted to find closure. Timol’s nephew Imtiaz Cajee, who fought to have the case reopened, was buoyed by the Mabelanes' presence in court. @BonganiNkosi87