The fight to protect the country’s endangered rhinos from poachers is apparently being stymied by an alleged errant Mpumalanga magistrate, who is accused of treating convicted poachers with kid gloves. The SA National Parks (SANParks) has laid a damning complaint against Skukuza district court magistrate Simon Fankomo for his slew of alleged failings in dealing with convicted rhino poachers. Justice and Constitutional Development Minister Michael Masutha’s office confirmed it was aware of the allegations, which have been referred to the Magistrate’s Commission - an independent statutory body dealing with the conduct of magistrates. The SANParks grievance, which The Star has seen, states that since Fankomo’s arrival about three months ago, there has been a reduction in severe punishment for poachers, where a man who was convicted for possession of an unlicensed rifle in the Kruger National Park received a measly R3000 fine instead of the five-to-15 years imprisonment given previously for a similar offence. The SANParks also accused Fankomo of granting bail to repeat offenders, where three poachers were released earlier this month, despite having previous convictions.  The body also deemed dodgy the “sudden” transfer of cases to Bushbuckridge from Skukuza - a court which has a dedicated police and prosecution team that has racked up a 99.8% success rate since inception in March last year. Figures contained in a detailed SANParks spreadsheet dating back to 2012, and also seen by The Star, seemingly validate the assertions made. The document shows that, among other crimes, possession of an unlicensed rifle had a minimum of five years’ imprisonment upon conviction. “It took blood, sweat and tears to get the court and its performance to where it currently is. The people of this country, our rhinos and SANParks cannot afford this worrying chain of events,” the leaked SANParks document said. Speaking on behalf of Fankomo, the Magistrate Commission referred all queries to the Department of Justice, saying it had furnished the government with all the information related to this case.  Department spokesperson Stephens Mahlangu said: “The Magistrate Commission has confirmed that this issue is receiving urgent attention and that immediate interventions are being undertaken to address the concerns raised by SANParks. “An engagement has been scheduled by the Magistrate Commission for October 12 to discuss this matter, which will involve the National Director for Public Prosecutions and the head of Environmental Crime Investigations at SANParks.” The Star