As Margo Fargo, 26, was due to fly out today to Manila and the Philippines to represent the country in this year’s Miss Earth pageant, the beauty said she was filled with pride to represent South Africa. The beauty from Bloemfontein participated in the Miss Earth SA leadership programme in 2014 and has been an ambassador for the past three years. She said she was ready to show the world what the country is made of. “I am feeling prepared and at the same time feeling so much pride. It has been quite overwhelming, with all the support and realising that I have the responsibility to represent a country. “I really feel it is a dream come true and it’s a feeling of fulfilment,” she said at her farewell celebrations hosted at Montecasino on Tuesday. “I am excited to be a part of this because Miss Earth is not just someone who just says ‘go plant trees’, but is one who teaches skills. “Everyone who goes through the leadership programme walks away with so much. “This is not just a beauty pageant, but the crowned Miss Earth is a leader in her community with aims to make a sustainable change wherever she goes,” she adds. The Miss Earth SA Leadership Programme has a firm focus on waste and has had Fargo working on campaigns that champion the conversation around lessening the carbon footprint in South Africa, while also encouraging individual efforts on the ground. “My main goal is to show the rest of the world what South Africa is made of and to champion the campaign #WasteStopsWithMe, on a global level. “To say we have the voluntary decision to make a change because it starts with you, we can make a difference daily.” Fargo will be competing in a number made by award winning Sonwabile Ndamase, of Vukani Fashions. And her evening wear is designed by internationally acclaimed South African Couture designer, Casper Bosman, showcasing strongly individual driven looks in a collection that is dominated by bold, powerful design and luxuriant fabrics. For her swimwear collection, Margo will be competing in original South African, Shweshwekini swimwear. @AmandaMaliba  The Star