When Ekurhuleni recommended Malaza for the top job last year, The Star last year flagged her chequered history as the former chief financial officer of the SABC At the time, opposition parties also accused the municipality of imposing Malaza on them. However, the ANC used its majority vote to appoint her. The Star reported last year how Malaza’s name had been pushed forward during a behind-closed-doors meeting. The meeting came after a chaotic council sitting that ran into the night. The EFF did not vote for the proposed appointment as it had dramatically left the meeting. In a major turnaround, the Ekurhuleni Municipal Council said on Tuesday in a statement that it took a decision last Thursday to suspend her . The executive mayor's acting spokesperson, Phakamile Mbengashe, said the city manager had issued Malaza with a letter asking her to provide reasons as to why she should not be suspended. “Upon receiving a response from Ms Malaza, the city manager found that there was no basis for her not to be suspended." Malaza was suspended effectively on October 29. “Ms Malaza has been suspended pending the finalisation of an investigation into alleged non-disclosure of information regarding her dismissal from the SABC as required by Regulation 11 of the Systems Act of 2000,” said Mbengashe. The acting spokesperson said they could not go with the reports in The Star that revealed almost a year ago that Malaza had been dismissed at the SABC in March 2014 for procurement and financial irregularities. The dismissal, which was confirmed by the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration, came two years after she had been placed on suspension. “We needed to carry out our own investigations after that report, but the onus was also on her to disclose this information, which she did not,” said Mbengashe. Malaza is on record defending her appointment when she cited in her application a “hostile environment and instability” as reasons for leaving the SABC. There is no mention of her being dismissed. This is despite The Star also highlighting that an investigation by former public protector Thuli Madonsela had found that former communications minister Dina Pule had interfered in Malaza’s appointment as chief financial officer at the SABC. Madonsela found that she had been interviewed and appointed to the position despite the fact that she did not apply for the post. She also found that Malaza had been interviewed long after the board had already recommended another candidate to Pule. Mbengashe said further investigations were being conducted by the city and should be concluded within the next three months.