Paramedics are finding more babies dumped in dustbins and velds across South Africa. According to ER24's Russell Meiring, their paramedics found at least seven babies in plastic bags and dustbins in provinces such as Gauteng,Western Cape and Durban in the past week. This past Sunday, ER24 paramedics found the body of a baby boy wrapped in a plastic bag in a field along Leslie Road in Fourways. Meiring said their paramedics were called to the scene after a man had made the grim discovery. "The body was wrapped in a plastic bag," he said, adding that it was clear that  the baby had been for quite some time. On October 3, the ER24 paramedics made another discovery of a foetus at a shopping complex on Ascot-on-Vaal in Vereeniging. A worker at the complex had discovered the body in the bin and called paramedics. Earlier in June this year, they also found  foetus in a veld off Twelfth Street in Maraisburg. Meiring said they found the fetus lying in the veld wrapped in a cloth.  Meiring said there was no specific time when babies were being abandoned but that they were likely dumped at night when they could not be seen. “Some of the babies that are abandoned are fully developed. I don’t know why people would abandon their babies but there is professional help that they can get if they don’t want the baby,” he said. The Gauteng Department of Social Development spokesperson Mbangwa Xaba said any child who is an orphan, abandoned by his parents, abused, neglected or has parents “who are unable to control them” can qualify for foster care placement. Xaba said the child must be under 18 years of age to qualify. He said the placement of children in foster care and Child and Youth Care Centres (CYCCs) reduces vulnerability. “Foster care placements continue to be the first choice of alternative care for children in need. However, foster care is a lengthy process that involves placement of children through the courts and continuous monitoring of the children once they have been placed with families. By placing children in CYCCs and in foster care the department reduce their vulnerability to abuse; neglect and exploitation,” Xaba said. Xaba has urged anyone who may have challenges with raising a child, anybody who believes that a particular child/children are in need of care can approach his department for assistance. @SthembisoMedia The Star