“He intends to plead guilty to the bulk of the charges,” prosecutor Rolene Bester informed the high court sitting in the Palm Ridge Magistrate’s Court on Thursday. The 28-year-old and his co-accused, 30, both face 51 counts, including 13 for rape, nine for kidnapping, robbery with aggravating circumstances, and aiding and abetting another person to commit sexual offences. Driving in a white Toyota Quantum taxi, the accused allegedly kidnapped women in the areas of Joburg and Ekurhuleni and raped and robbed them of their belongings. The women believed they had boarded a legitimate taxi. Most of the women were raped in the back seat of the taxi while it was in motion, while some were raped in the bushes. The two alleged rapists, who sat quietly in the dock yesterday, cannot be named yet because they have not pleaded. Bester told Judge Cassim Moosa that two witnesses would be called on Friday to testify on the few charges the 28-year-old, from Soweto, disputed. One of the victims set to testify boarded the Quantum in Saxonwold, Joburg. She was headed for the Rosebank taxi rank. The Soweto man allegedly robbed her of items including four bank cards, two cellphones and a wedding ring. She was then raped and dropped off in Orlando East, Soweto. Another woman, who the 28-year-old disputed raping, boarded the Quantum in Ponong, Vosloorus. The man allegedly threatened her with what resembled a gun and forcefully took her cellphone, money and bank card. Her money was withdrawn while she was held against her will in the taxi. “The taxi drove to an open veld where it stopped,” said the indictment sheet. “The accused then raped the complainant.” She was later dropped off in Alberton North. Another woman, from Freedom Park, Joburg, was also raped inside the taxi and robbed of R300. She boarded the taxi on Main Reef Road. The State intended to withdraw most of the charges against the 30-year-old accused from Killarney. It has since emerged he was in jail when most of these heinous crimes were committed. Judge Moosa pointed out that the Killarney man still faced charges that could see him jailed for life.] The Star