Johannesburg - Women and children in the East Rand can now breath a sigh of relief after the man who terrorised them in the area, raping and kidnapping 41 of them was sentenced to 11 life terms and 970 years. For nearly 10 years, serial rapist Khutso Mailoane, went on a rape spree, pouncing on his victims in Germiston and Boksburg. Brandishing his knife, the father of two dragged his victims to secluded spots where he robbed and raped them. Those who resisted were brutally assaulted. In one incident he raped a young mother in front of her daughter, threatening to kill the child if she didn't remain quiet during the incident. He did the same to another woman while she was carrying her baby, and in another case raped a woman who was eight months pregnant. His youngest victim was a 13-year-old he forced into the veld and raped near the Khutalo Hostel in Germiston. When his reign of terror was finally brought to an end, the lives of 41 females-11 of whom were teenagers- had changed forever after falling victim to his kidnapping and raping spree. On Friday, Judge Simon Radasi at the South Gauteng High Court lamented that Mailoane had changed the lives of his victims for the worse and sentenced the 31-year-old man to 11 life terms and 970 years for the 122 counts he faced.  These included 41 counts of rape, 39 for kidnapping, 29 for robbery with aggravating circumstances, three for assault causing grievous bodily harm and one for housebreaking. Despite protesting his innocence, Mailoane was linked to all the rapes by DNA. Judge Radasi said Mailoane's young victims revealed that they found their rape experiences “worse than death”. Other young victims of Mailoane’s were three girls aged 14, 15 and 16 who were walking home from school. “The accused raped all three of them,” Radasi said. Radasi said many of Mailoane’s victims now found it hard to be intimate with their partners. They either hated men or had flashbacks every time they tried intimacy. Mailoane deserved to be removed from society, the judge said. @BonganiNkosi87 The Star