Residents of Mayfair in Johannesburg gathered at Louis Braille House on Thursday in support of International White Cane Day which puts a spotlight on the struggles of visually impaired people. About 60 people who are estimated to be 75% visually blind and 25% sighted attended the commemoration and shared their  day to day struggles, especially when they have to use minibus taxis. Blind SA CEO Jase Nair said there were still attitudes and myths surrounding the blind community and that thousands of children should be at school but can't get there because of transport and lack of resources. "The state doesn't even provide white canes as an essential mobility aid; they have to buy that using their social security grants. "It is important to highlight that blind people have abilities they just need opportunities." Various taxi associations were also invited to the event to show support to visually impaired people. The Johannesburg Southern Suburbs Taxi Association (JSSTA), Dobsonville, Roodepoort, Leratong, Johannesburg Taxi Association (DORLJOTA), Nancefield Dube West Taxi Association (Nanduwe) and the Witwatersrand Taxi Association (WATA) were present. The City of Joburg had together with the Department of Social Development previously hosted a workshop on October 11 for blind and disabled people and invited all taxi associations. The associations were taught different ways of how to dealing with visually impaired people. Chairperson of National Taxi Alliance (NTA) Lorraine Zoliswa Sifuba their aim as the taxi industry was to understand their struggles and therefore make their lives easier. "We need to educate our drivers because they are the ones who are on the streets and can identify who is visually impaired but as taxi owners we need to educate ourselves so we can give our drivers rules on how to take care of the elderly, the disabled and visually impaired people before we hire them," said. The NTA also pledged to help the the disabled and visually impaired people with free transport when they have to attend events and have committed to spreading this initiative to more taxi associations. Godfrey Doll from Eldorado Taxi Association also spoke about the many struggles that visually impaired people face daily such as difficulties in getting jobs, education as well as using public transport. "There are taxi drivers who refuse to let them in their taxis. They are being dropped off at wrong locations because taxi drivers are not willing to assist and they are also  paying double the taxi fare because they are required to have someone who can accompany them when they board taxis. "We are all from different cultures and races so there are a lot of people who don't understand the sore parts of being disabled especially our taxi drivers. So, that's where we come in to say enough is enough. You find a blind person at the robot trying to pass and taxi drivers just drive by, we need to make this a big thing and help them be more sensitive to visually impaired people," said. 