Although successes in reducing crime have been achieved, metropolitan cities need prosecutorial authorities to ensure that arrests are followed by convictions. So said City of Joburg mayor Herman Mashaba on Monday while announcing his monthly crime statistics from the Joburg Metro Police Department (JMPD) in the past month. These do not include SA Police Service statistics. “We would like to have our own courts and prisons. We do have five municipal courts but there are administrative problems such as the change of magisterial districts and boundaries which results in fines issued in incorrect districts being withdrawn,” he said. The new fine books would be issued to the JMPD by November 4, he said. JMPD chief, David Tembe- announcing the figures of the top six crimes from July to September- listed these as firearms and ammunition (38), false vehicle licence discs (21), drugs (70), theft of motor vehicles (35), driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs (2 039) and reckless and negligent driving (69). The JMPD’s K9 unit, during the same period effected 138 recovery of vehicles, 27 kgs of drugs seized, 32 recoveries of stolen property and 10 firearms recovered. Driving under the influence remains the highest number of arrests amongst the city’s eight regions, with single-number arrests for other offences such as stolen vehicles, robbery, hijackings, fraud, assault false licences. “Safety remains a key concern for many of our residents. Though policing remains a provincial and national competency, per the constitution, within its limited mandate, the City’s JMPD is working hard to increase the levels of safety within our communities,” said Tembe. Operation Buya Mthetho, which is a city wide campaign involving different city and provincial and national departments such as social services, immigration, Joburg Water and City Power,  the JMPD conducted 25 visible policing operations within bad buildings between July and September, with 12 arrests made. In addition to this, during the same period, a total of 670 vehicles were impounded through operations for detecting unroadworthy taxis and vehicles. The city also issued 200 201 Administrative Adjudication of Road Traffic Offence (Aarto)  infringement notices for September. “As a city, we will continue to do all that is within our power to ensure that we create safe and connected communities throughout Joburg. Alongside this, we will continue work with our law enforcement authorities to see to it that where arrests are made by JMPD, these cases are not only investigated but also properly prosecuted by law enforcement authorities,” said the JMPD chief. Illegal activities can be reported at the following: • Anti-Corruption Hotline: 0800 203 712 • Traffic Management Hotline: 080 872 3342 • JMPD Emergency number: 011 375 5911 / 011 758 9620 • Illegal Dumping: 082 779 1361 (WhatsApp or SMS – Residents are advised to take clear images)