Dr Amanda Nduli, who works as a dentist in private practice, took it on himself to contribute to the City of Ekurhuleni’s project on teaching young children about taking care of their teeth, after noting that dentistry services are offered to people who can already afford to get their teeth washed or polished. He noted that the same luxury was not enjoyed by everyone, especially children for whom dental hygiene habits are needed to ensure the development of strong and healthy teeth. As a recipient of the Ekurhuleni grant-in-aid Nduli, who runs the Amanda Nduli Dental Surgery and Associates through the funding received from the city, is now able to create beautiful smiles in underprivileged communities by teaching proper teeth brushing techniques. “We often find that in most of the homes and the NGOs we visit, children have poor oral hygiene and some do not even own a toothbrush. “However, it is fulfilling to know that once we visit a facility, we leave at least a child or more with tools that can boost their confidence for life,” Nduli said. “By following proper brushing techniques and routine, one would need not to visit a dentist to get their teeth washed, because they would have been doing it right from a young age.” The oral hygiene coaching offered by Andsa is not only limited to schools, but is also extended to old-age homes, crèches, orphanage and children’s homes and any other facilities identified by Ekurhuleni social workers. “Among the most important things parents need to be cognisant of is to ensure the toothbrush and paste are suitable for the child’s age as a rough brush damages gums and adult toothpaste given to a child threatens to damage the enamel of their teeth. “This can be done by paying attention to the age stipulated on the toothpaste and brush packages,” he added. Dora Mlambo, MMC for community services, said: “Poor oral hygiene can be a hidden addition to poor self-confidence but this can be prevented among young and old residents whom we encourage to use the dental health services offered for free at clinics across the City of Ekurhuleni.”