While sharing memes and funny videos in your friends' group chat is great for a laugh, nothing beats spending quality time with them off-screen. With 2018 coming to a close, why not rally your tribe for a holiday? In the spirit of group travel, Flight Centre's Travel Stokvel concept is the perfect solution to help encourage travel among your friends. Stokvel subscribers benefit from expert travel advice, exclusive discounts and promotions, while minimising trip admin and potential travel-planning riffs. Here are some of our top local deals for travel until 30 November: Live like kings and queens Two nights at Sun City, from R2,790 per person* If the votes are in for a more luxurious location, try the five-star Palace Hotel in a Luxury Room. With daily breakfast, complimentary entry into the Valley of Waves and use of shuttle within the resort. Perfect for large groups, there are plenty of activities to choose from, including a private spa and 4x4 game drives. See more here. A beachy reunion Two nights in Durban, from R990 per person sharing* You can't beat the central location of The Balmoral Hotel on Durban's Golden Mile. The Indian Ocean is right on this iconic hotel's doorstep. For couples who want privacy from the rest of the group, this deal includes two nights' accommodation in a double room with room service. Enjoy coming home to absolute comfort after a busy day out exploring the beachfront. See more here. An Eastern Cape friends' break Three nights in Port Edward, from R2,150 per person* If travelling with kids in tow, head to the coastal hub of Port Edward, less than a two-hours' drive from Durban's King Shaka International Airport. The Wild Coast Sun Hotel offers family-friendly accommodation with modern facilities, while the kiddies can splash about in the Wild Waves Water Park. See more here. Gather the herd Three nights at Sabie River, from R3,980 per person* For groups with different travel preferences, the four-star Casa Do Sol Hotel in Mpumalanga, has accommodation in casas, villas, twin and double suites. The Casa Grande even features a Jacuzzi, private pool and sauna. Don't forget to mention that your travel companions can exchange trunk greetings with elephants at the animal sanctuary situated just next door. See more here. An adventure in the Misty Mountains Three nights at the Drakensberg Mountains, from R1,050, based on six people sharing* It's no wonder J.R.R Tolkien is said to have found inspiration for his Lord of the Rings series in and around the Drakensberg. This local getaway includes three nights' self-catering accommodation at the four-star Alpine Heath Resort, with breakfast daily. Make time to head out on an easy slackpacking trail or team up on the miniature golf course. See more here.