Two Sophiatown police offices have been arrested for the murder of a Westbury man who was shot and killed in July. The officers were arrested by a multi-disciplinary task team that was recently deployed to Westbury, as part of stabilisation intervention. Violence erupted in the area two weeks ago after Heather Peterson, a mother of six,  was shot and killed in broad daylight just a few metres from her home. Peterson was walking with her 10-year-old niece at the time who was wounded. The two officers were arrested on Wednesday night on charges of murdering 21 year old Bradley Sauls who was gunned down while walking in the area on July 24. They also face a charge of defeating the ends of justice. The Minister of Police, Minister Bheki Cele and the National Commissioner of Police, General Khehla John Sitole had gone to the area after Petersen's death triggered violent protests. Spokesperson for Sitole, Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo said the multi-disciplinary investigative task team was among other cases tasked to investigate the murder of Sauls. He said the team identified a group of suspects and Taiton Palmer,73, Dennis Oliphant,25, Desmond Oliphant,37 and Keenan Ebrahim, 34 were arrested. He said they appeared in court on October 8 and remain in custody. "In the meantime, investigations continued and the team arrested a fifth suspect on Wednesday morning. Thereafter, two policemen, Warrant Officer Wynand Steyn,45, and Sergeant Tom Keet, 42 were arrested. "The police officers are alleged to have concealed crucial evidence after having arrived first on the scene. The fifth suspect as well as the two police officers were expected to appear in court on charges of murder and defeating the ends of justice. The State will oppose any efforts by the accused to apply for bail." Naidoo said the arrest of the two police officers brings the total to seven the number of suspects arrested in connection with the murder of Saul. "There is also a departmental investigation running concurrently against the two policemen." Sitole indicated that he was satisfied with the work of the multi-disciplinary task team after being deployed to the area for just over a week. "I am confident that this team will continue to work around the clock to bring to book all those responsible for crime in the area of Westbury", said General Sitole. "The arrest of the two policemen is a clear indication that nobody is above the law and that corruption will not be tolerated"  Sitole added.