Her shoot was luxurious and embodied her classic look. Mtoba is known not only for her style but for her work as an actress on Mzansi Magic’s Isibaya. “My style is old Hollywood glamour. I think I was born in the wrong era,” she said. Mtoba is currently lending her acting talent to 1Magic’s The River. “My character is quite challenging and it's something that I needed to do for growth as a young actress in the industry. “I am in a very happy environment. It’s where I feel like this had to be the next step after Isibaya. “The role is different. It has taught me to dig deeper than I thought I could possibly do.” Mtoba also did a movie recently in Atlanta, US, and is working on a partnership with Vaseline and their new lip tins. “That is going to be used from this week, and it's amazing to be working with them.” The Style Awards celebrate people who inspire and aspire to do more. Jillian Grögor, founder of the awards, said they weren’t focused only on style: “Not in that literal form of the connotation being ‘best dressed’ or how stylish you dress yourself. “It’s a platform where I saw the opportunity to have amazing South Africans recognised for the stylishness they were creating in their careers, whether a business person, a personality or a model. “It’s an inspiration for people to know that through hard work and perseverance they can fulfil their dreams. It’s recognising talent that has gone up the ranks and created a stylish career for themselves.” The likes of Khanyi Dhlomo and Basetsana Kumalo have been honoured previously. Manthe Ribane won the Next Big Thing award a few years back and it catapulted her to greater heights. Kumalo is now a convening judge for the awards. Nominees this year include Lerato Kganyago and DJ Zinhle, who own their style in the media game. Rising star illustrator Karabo Poppy Moletsane has been nominated as well. The graphic designer uses the body as a tool for self-expression and creation. She has already had clients such as Google, Apple and Nike for her work. The awards will be held on November 18 in the Sandton City Diamond Walk, powered by Alfa Romeo. The ceremony will be followed by a dinner party for guests at the renovated Sandton Sun San Deck. @mane_mpi