Violence erupted during SRC elections at Wits University and some people are alleged to have been assaulted in the chaos. One of them was so baldy injured that he had to be taken to hospital. One video that was posted on Twitter shows an injured man on the ground with a lady over him attending to his injuries. The man's is lying on his back and his head is resting on a makeshift pillow. He is bleeding from the mouth, barefoot and his shoes are next to him. The person recording the incident can be heard accusing EFF members of having beaten the guy. In another tweet, @mfazomyama writes: "Never would have thought I’d be at Charlotte Maxeke Hospital at this hour accompanying a comrade that was almost butchered to death by the Wits EFF." On the other hand Wits EFF also posted a video of someone in an EFF shirt lying on the ground they claim was assaulted by the Progressive Youth Alliance (PYA). The PYA is made up of the South African Students’ Congress Organisation (Sasco),  ANC Youth League, Young Communist League and high school representative body Congress of South African Students (Cosas). Buhle Zuma, Senior Communications Officer said voting in the SRC general election started on Tuesday and would closes at 8pm on Wednesday. She confirmed that that violent incidents have been reported and that may be in violation of the SRC Election Code of Conduct, which was adopted by all candidates. "The SRC Electoral Team together with Campus Protection Services are investigating these incidents. All incidents should be reported to Campus Protection Services immediately," Zuma said. The EFF Students Command (EFFSC) National President Peter Keetse accused the South African Students Congress (Sasco) of having provoked them by removing their posters on campus and in additon to that one of their members was beaten. “What we are aware of is that there was an altercation between EFF and Sasco members at Wits. We noticed that our elections posters were being removed. We then discovered that it was Sasco supporters who were removing them. On of our members was beaten,” he said. However, the Progressive Youth Alliance Coordinator Cebolenkosi Khumalo said the EFF started had the ‘fight’. “All elections have rues. The rule was that all those that are campaigning should use A2 posters not A1 because it is big. The EFF used the A1 posters. The EFF had removed some of our posters. Yesterday [Tuesday] we went out to put some of our posters and we found them waiting for us.  “Then there was an argument. One guy who was recording everything was approached by an girl from EFF who took his phone. The guy demanded his phone and in between he was beaten and he became unconscious. The incident happened at 3am. He is at Charlotte Maxeke Hospital,” Khumalo said. The Star understand that the unconscious student is 21 years and is a Progressive Youth Alliance member. In August, SRC elections at the Tshwane University of Technology’s Soshanguve campus turned fatal when final year student Katlego Monareng was shot and killed. 